e circumstances be 
extremely complex, and the method of identifying the profits relevant to the 
transaction and any assumptions made in doing so need to be documented.

C.4.1. Transactional profit splits of actual or anticipated profits

2.158.  The determination of the profits to be split, including whether those 
profits are actual profits or anticipated profits, or some combination thereof, 
should be aligned with the accurately delineated transaction. Example 13 in 
Annex II to Chapter II illustrates the principles of this section.

2.159.  Where the transactional profit split method is found to be the most 
appropriate,  the  splitting  of  actual  profits,  i.e.  profits  which  have  been 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

140 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

affected by the playing out of economically significant risks, would only be 
appropriate where the accurate delineation of the transaction shows that the 
parties either share the assumption of the same economically significant risks 
associated with the business opportunity or separately assume closely related, 
economically significant risks associated with the business opportunity and 
consequently should share in the resulting profits or losses. These kinds of 
risk  assumption  may  occur  in  scenarios  where  the  business  operations  are 
highly integrated and/or each party makes unique and valuable contributions.

2.160.  Alternatively, if the transactional profit split is found to be the most 
appropriate method (e.g. because each party to the transaction makes unique 
and  valuable  contributions)  but  one  of  the  parties  does  not  share  in  the 
assumption of the economically significant risks which might play out after 
entering  into  the  transaction,  a  split  of  anticipated  profits  would  be  more 
appropriate. See scenario 1 of Example 13 in Annex II to Chapter II of this 
guidance.

2.161. 
In  any  application  of  a  transactional  profit  split,  care  should  be 
exercised  to  ensure  that  the  method  is  applied  without  hindsight.  See 
paragraph  3.74.  That  is,  irrespective  of  whether  a  transactional  profit  split 
of  anticipated  or  actual  profits  is  used,  unless  there  are  major  unforeseen 
developments which would have resulted in a renegotiation of the agreement 
had  it  occurred  between  independent  parties,  the  basis  upon  which  those 
profits are to be split between the associated enterprises, including the profit 
splitting  factors,  the  way  in  which  relevant  profits  are  calculated,  and  any 
adjustments or contingencies, must be determined on the basis of information 
known or reasonably foreseeable by the parties at the time the transactions 
were entered into. This is so notwithstanding the fact that in many cases, the 
actual calculations can necessarily only be performed some time afterwards, 
where, for example they apply profit splitting factors determined at the outset 
to the actual profits. Additionally, it should be remembered that the starting 
point  in  the  accurate  delineation  of  any  transaction  will  generally  be  the 
written contracts which may reflect the intention of the parties at the time the 
contract was concluded. See paragraph 1.42.

C.4.2. Different measures of profits

2.162.  Most commonly, the relevant profits to be split under the transactional 
profit split method are operating profits. Applying the transactional profit split 
method in this manner ensures that both income and expenses of the MNE 
are  attributed  to  the  relevant  associated  enterprise  on  a  consistent  basis. 
However,  depending  on  the  accurate  delineation  of  the  transaction,  it  may 
be  appropriate  to  split  a  different  measure  of  profits  such  as  gross  profits, 
and  then  deduct  the  expenses  incurred  by  or  attributable  to  each  relevant 
enterprise  (excluding  expenses  already  taken  into  account).  In  such  cases, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 141

care  must  be  taken  to  ensure  that  the  expenses  incurred  by  or  attributable 
to each enterprise are consistent with the accurate delineation of the trans-
action, particularly the activities and risks undertaken by each party, and that 
the allocation of profits is likewise consistent with the contributions of the 
parties.

2.163.  That is, the measure of profits to be split will depend on the accurate 
delineation  of  the  transaction.  For  instance,  if  the  accurate  delineation  of 
the transaction determines that the parties share the assumption of not only 
market risk, which affects the volume of sales and prices charged, but also 
risks associated with producing or otherwise acquiring goods and services, 
which  affect  the  level  of  gross  profit,  it  would  be  most  appropriate  to  use 
gross  profits  as  the  basis  of  the  split.  In  such  a  scenario,  the  p