tion for taxpayers.

4.5. 
This section describes three aspects of transfer pricing compliance 
that should receive special consideration to help tax jurisdictions administer 
their  transfer  pricing  rules  in  a  manner  that  is  fair  to  taxpayers  and  other 
jurisdictions. While other tax law compliance practices are in common use in 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 175

OECD member countries – for example, the use of litigation and evidentiary 
sanctions where information may be sought by a tax administration but is not 
provided – these three aspects will often impact on how tax administrations 
in other jurisdictions approach the mutual agreement procedure process and 
determine  their  administrative  response  to  ensuring  compliance  with  their 
own transfer pricing rules. The three aspects are: examination practices, the 
burden of proof, and penalty systems. The evaluation of these three aspects 
will  necessarily  differ  depending  on  the  characteristics  of  the  tax  system 
involved, and so it is not possible to describe a uniform set of principles or 
issues that will be relevant in all cases. Instead, this section seeks to provide 
general  guidance  on  the  types  of  problems  that  may  arise  and  reasonable 
approaches for achieving a balance of the interests of the taxpayers and tax 
administrations involved in a transfer pricing inquiry.

B.1.  Examination practices

4.6. 
Examination practices vary widely among OECD member countries. 
Differences in procedures may be prompted by such factors as the system and 
the structure of the tax administration, the geographic size and population of 
the jurisdiction, the level of domestic and international trade, and cultural and 
historical influences.

4.7. 
Transfer pricing cases can present special challenges to the normal audit 
or examination practices, both for the tax administration and for the taxpayer. 
Transfer pricing cases are fact-intensive and may involve difficult evaluations 
of  comparability,  markets,  and  financial  or  other  industry  information. 
Consequently, a number of tax administrations have examiners who specialise 
in  transfer  pricing,  and  transfer  pricing  examinations  themselves  may  take 
longer than other examinations and follow separate procedures.

4.8. 
Because transfer pricing is not an exact science, it will not always 
be  possible  to  determine  the  single  correct  arm’s  length  price;  rather,  as 
Chapter III recognises, the correct price may have to be estimated within a 
range of acceptable figures. Also, the choice of methodology for establishing 
arm’s  length  transfer  pricing  will  not  often  be  unambiguously  clear. 
Taxpayers may experience particular difficulties when the tax administration 
proposes to use a methodology, for example a transactional profit method, 
that is not the same as that used by the taxpayer.

4.9. 
In a difficult transfer pricing case, because of the complexity of the 
facts to be evaluated, even the best-intentioned taxpayer can make an honest 
mistake.  Moreover,  even  the  best-intentioned  tax  examiner  may  draw  the 
wrong conclusion from the facts. Tax administrations are encouraged to take 
this observation into account in conducting their transfer pricing examinations. 
This  involves  two  implications.  First,  tax  examiners  are  encouraged  to  be 
flexible  in  their  approach  and  not  demand  from  taxpayers  in  their  transfer 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

176 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

pricing  a  precision  that  is  unrealistic  under  all  the  facts  and  circumstances. 
Second,  tax  examiners  are  encouraged  to  take  into  account  the  taxpayer’s 
commercial judgment about the application of the arm’s length principle, so 
that  the  transfer  pricing  analysis  is  tied  to  business  realities.  Therefore,  tax 
examiners should undertake to begin their analyses of transfer pricing from the 
perspective of the method that the taxpayer has chosen in setting its prices. The 
guidance provided in Chapter II, Part I dealing with the selection of the most 
appropriate transfer pricing method also may assist in this regard.

4.10.  A  tax  administration  should  keep  in  mind  in  allocating  its  audit 
resources the taxpayer’s process of setting prices, for example whether the 
MNE group operates on a profit centre basis. See paragraph 1.5.

B.2.  Burden of proof

4.11.  Like examination practices, the burden of proof rules for tax cases 
also  differ  among  OECD  member  countries.  In  most  jurisdictions,  the  tax 
administration  bears  the  burden  of  proof  both  in  its  own  internal  dealings 
with  the  taxpayer  (e.g.  assessment  and  appeals)  and  in  litigation.  In  some 
of these jurisdictions, the burden of proof can be reversed, allowing the tax 
administration  to  estimate  taxable  income,  if  t