 subjected to tax at the time of the 
transfer  in  the  transferor’s  jurisdiction.  It  is  recognised  that  inconsistencies 
between individual jurisdictional laws regarding such matters can sometimes 
give rise to either double taxation or double non-taxation.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

250 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

A.3. Categories of intangibles

In discussions of transfer pricing issues related to intangibles, it is 
6.15. 
sometimes the case that various categories of intangibles are described and 
labels applied. Distinctions are sometimes made between trade intangibles 
and marketing intangibles, between “soft” intangibles and “hard” intangibles, 
between  routine  and  non-routine  intangibles,  and  between  other  classes 
and  categories  of  intangibles.  The  approach  contained  in  this  chapter  for 
determining arm’s length prices in cases involving intangibles does not turn 
on these categorisations. Accordingly, no attempt is made in these Guidelines 
to delineate with precision various classes or categories of intangibles or to 
prescribe outcomes that turn on such categories.
6.16.  Certain  categories  of  intangibles  are,  however,  commonly  referred 
to  in  discussions  of  transfer  pricing  matters.  To  facilitate  discussions, 
definitions of two such commonly used terms, “marketing intangibles” and 
“trade intangibles” are contained in the Glossary and referred to from time 
to time in the discussion in these Guidelines. It should be emphasised that 
generic references to marketing or trade intangibles do not relieve taxpayers 
or tax administrations from their obligation in a transfer pricing analysis to 
identify relevant intangibles with specificity, nor does the use of those terms 
suggest  that  a  different  approach  should  be  applied  in  determining  arm’s 
length conditions for transactions that involve either marketing intangibles 
or trade intangibles.
In certain instances these Guidelines refer to “unique and valuable” 
6.17. 
intangibles.  “Unique  and  valuable”  intangibles  are  those  intangibles 
(i) that are not comparable to intangibles used by or available to parties to 
potentially comparable transactions, and (ii) whose use in business operations 
(e.g. manufacturing, provision of services, marketing, sales or administration) 
is expected to yield greater future economic benefits than would be expected 
in the absence of the intangible.

A.4. Illustrations

6.18.  This section provides illustrations of items often considered in transfer 
pricing analyses involving intangibles. The illustrations are intended to clarify 
the provisions of Section A.1, but this listing should not be used as a substitute 
for a detailed analysis. The illustrations are not intended to be comprehensive 
or  to  provide  a  complete  listing  of  items  that  may  or  may  not  constitute 
intangibles. Numerous items not included in this listing of illustrations may 
be intangibles for transfer pricing purposes. The illustrations in this section 
should  be  adapted  to  the  specific  legal  and  regulatory  environment  that 
prevails  in  each  jurisdiction.  Furthermore,  the  illustrations  in  this  section 
should  be  considered  and  evaluated  in  the  context  of  the  comparability 
analysis (including the functional analysis) of the controlled transaction with 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 251

the objective of better understanding how specific intangibles and items not 
treated as intangibles contribute to the creation of value in the context of the 
MNE’s global business. It should be emphasised that a generic reference to 
an item included in the list of illustrations does not relieve taxpayers or tax 
administrations from their obligation in a transfer pricing analysis to identify 
relevant intangibles with specificity based on the guidance of Section A.1.

A.4.1. Patents

6.19.  A patent is a legal instrument that grants an exclusive right to its owner 
to use a given invention for a limited period of time within a specific geography. 
A patent may relate to a physical object or to a process. Patentable inventions are 
often developed through risky and costly research and development activities. In 
some circumstances, however, small research and development expenditures can 
lead to highly valuable patentable inventions. The developer of a patent may try 
to recover its development costs (and earn a return) through the sale of products 
covered by the patent, by licensing others to use the patented invention, or by an 
outright sale of the patent. The exclusivity granted by a patent may, under some 
circumstances, allow the patent owner to earn premium returns from the use of 
its invention. In other cases, a patented invention may provide cost advantages 
to the owner that are not available to competitors. In still other situations, patents 
may  not  provide  a  significant  commercia