value  proposition  to  its  customers  lies  in  its  competitive 
pricing, which is made possible by its efficiency and economies of scale and 
scope, and its seamless integration across international boundaries.

36. 
Companies  L  and  M  jointly  perform  the  same  key  value-adding 
functions and jointly use and contribute to the MNE group’s most important 
assets.  Although  arm’s  length  pricing  for  their  joint  activities  is  readily 
available,  their  operations  are  highly  integrated  and  interdependent  such 
that it is not possible to use a one-sided method to determine an arm’s length 
outcome for either of their respective contributions. In this case, therefore, it 
is likely that a transactional profit split will be the most appropriate method 
of determining the arm’s length compensation due to Companies L and M.

37. 
If Companies L and M also share the assumption of the economically 
significant risks associated with the transactions, a profit split of actual profits 
is likely to be appropriate.

Example 8

Company  A  is  the  parent  company  of  M  Group,  an  MNE  group 
38. 
engaged  in  the  manufacturing  and  distribution  of  electronic  devices. 
Company A has the exclusive right to sell the devices in all territories.

39. 
Company A decides to subcontract the manufacturing of the electronic 
devices to Company B, another member of M Group. Under the terms of the 
contract, Company B will follow the directions of Company A to produce the 
devices. Company B will source and supply the materials necessary to produce 
the different parts of the final products. A key component in the manufacturing 
process is sourced from Company A. Company B sells the finished goods to 
Company A, which in turn will market and distribute the product to unrelated 
customers.

40. 
To  perform  the  manufacturing  activities,  Company  B  has  invested 
in machinery and tooling that is specifically adapted to the production of the 
electronic devices sold by M Group. Company B has no other customer than 
Company A so its entire output is acquired by Company A.

41. 
The accurately delineated transaction shows that Company B does 
not make any unique and valuable contributions in relation to the controlled 
transactions and the business of M Group. Furthermore, the risks assumed 
by Company B are not economically significant for the business operations 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

474 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD

of  the  group.  While  the  operations  of  Company  B  are  integrated  to  some 
degree with those of Company A and are dependent upon Company A, arm’s 
length  compensation  for  the  contributions  of  Company  B  can  be  reliably 
benchmarked by reference to comparable uncontrolled transactions and the 
application of a one-sided transfer pricing method or methods. Under these 
circumstances, the transactional profit split method is unlikely to be the most 
appropriate method.

Example 9

ACo,  resident  in  Country  A,  and  BCo,  resident  in  Country  B,  are 
42. 
members  of  AB  Inc,  an  MNE  Group.  ACo  owns  worldwide  patents  on 
Compound A and BCo owns worldwide patents on Enzyme B. Compound A 
and  Enzyme  B  are  both  unique.  ACo  and  BCo  have  each  developed  their 
respective compound or enzyme by their own efforts, for different purposes, 
but  each  found  that  they  were  not  able  to  be  used  as  they  had  originally 
intended.  As  a  result,  neither  Compound  A  nor  Enzyme  B  has  significant 
value at this time.

However, engineers from ACo and BCo working together subsequently 
43. 
determine  that  the  combination  of  Compound  A  and  Enzyme  B  creates  a 
unique and valuable drug which is very effective in treating a specific disease 
and is likely to be highly valuable.

ACo and BCo enter into a contract according to which ACo grants 
44. 
BCo the right to use Compound A. BCo will combine both components to 
develop the new drug and will market it.

45. 
Under  these  circumstances,  the  high  level  of  integration  and  inter-
dependency between the contributions of ACo and BCo affects the value of 
those contributions such that each contribution is unique and valuable when 
considered in combination with the other. As a result, the transactional profit 
split method is found to be the most appropriate method for determining the 
compensation at which the rights to use Compound A are transferred by ACo 
to BCo.

Example 10

46. 
Company A designs, develops and produces a line of high technology 
industrial products. A new generation of the product line incorporates a key 
component developed and created by Company B, an associated enterprise 
of  Company  A.  This  key  component  is  highly  innovative,  incorporating 
unique  and  valuable  intangibles.  This  innovation  represents  the  key  point 
of  difference  in  the  new  generation  of  products.  The  success  