 
 
 
 
 
 
of banking or is a public financial institution, and its activities are regulated 
as such under the applicable laws of the country of incorporation. 

(d) “Senior Management” in respect of a company means the person or persons 
who are generally responsible for developing and formulating key strategies and 
policies  for  the  company  and  for  ensuring  or  overseeing  the  execution  and 
implementation  of  those  strategies  on  a  regular  and  on-going  basis.  While 
designation may vary, these persons may include: 

(i) Managing Director or Chief Executive Officer; 
(ii) Financial Director or Chief Financial Officer; 
(iii) Chief Operating Officer; and 
(iv)  The  heads  of  various  divisions  or  departments  (for  example,  Chief 
Information or Technology Officer, Director for Sales or Marketing). 

6. 
Any determination of the POEM will depend upon the facts and circumstances of 
a given case. The POEM concept is one of substance over form. It may be noted that 
an entity may have more than one place of management, but it can have only one place 
of effective management at any point of time. Since “residence” is to be determined for 
each  year,  POEM  will  also  be  required  to  be  determined  on  year  to  year  basis.  The 
process of determination of POEM would be primarily based on the fact as to whether 
or not the company is engaged in active business outside India.  

The  place  of  effective  management  in  case  of  a  company  engaged  in  active 
7.  
business outside India shall be presumed to be outside India if the majority meetings of 
the board of directors of the company are held outside India. 

7.1   However,  if  on  the  basis  of  facts  and  circumstances  it  is  established  that  the 
Board of directors of the company are standing aside and not exercising their powers of 
management  and  such  powers  are  being  exercised  by  either  the  holding  company  or 
any other person (s) resident in India, then the place of effective management shall be 
considered  to  be  in  India.  For  this  purpose,  merely  because  the  Board  of  Directors 
(BOD) follows general and objective principles of global policy of the group laid down by 
the  parent  entity  which  may  be  in  the  field  of  Pay  roll  functions,  Accounting,  Human 
resource  (HR)  functions,  IT  infrastructure  and  network  platforms,  Supply  chain 
functions, Routine banking operational procedures, and not being specific to any entity 
or group of entities per se; would not constitute a case of BoD of companies standing 
aside.   

7.2    For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  the  company  is  engaged  in  active 
business outside India, the average of the data of the previous year and two years prior 
to  that  shall  be  taken  into  account.  In  case  the  company  has  been  in  existence  for  a 
shorter period, then data of such period shall be considered. Where the accounting year 
for tax purposes, in accordance with laws of country of incorporation of the company, is 
different from the previous year, then, data of the accounting year that ends during the 
relevant previous year and two accounting years preceding it shall be considered.  

Page 3 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  
In  cases  of  companies  other  than  those  that  are  engaged  in  active  business 
outside  India  referred  to  in  para  7,  the  determination  of  POEM  would  be  a  two  stage 
process, namely:- 

(i) 

First  stage  would  be  identification  or  ascertaining  the  person  or  persons 
who  actually  make  the  key  management  and  commercial  decision  for 
conduct of the company’s business as a whole. 

(ii)  Second stage would be determination of place where these decisions are 

in fact being made.   

8.1   The  place  where  these  management  decisions  are  taken  would  be  more 
important  than  the  place  where  such  decisions  are  implemented.  For  the  purpose  of 
determination  of  POEM  it  is  the  substance  which  would  be  conclusive  rather  than  the 
form.  

8.2   Some of the guiding principles which may be taken into account for determining 
the POEM are as follows: 

(a) The location where a company’s Board regularly meets and makes decisions 
may be the company’s place of effective management provided, the Board- 

(i)  retains and exercises its authority to govern the company; and  

(ii)  does,  in  substance,  make  the  key  management  and  commercial 
decisions  necessary  for  the  conduct  of  the  company’s  business  as  a 
whole.   

It may be mentioned that mere formal holding of board meetings at 
a place would by itself not be conclusive for determination of POEM being 
located at that place. If the key decisions by the directors are in fact being 
taken in a place other than the place where the formal meetings are held 
then  such  other  place  would  be  relevant  for  POEM.  As  an  example  this 
may be the case where the board meet