operating in a given jurisdiction 
because disclosure and filing requirements may differ depending on the legal 
form of the company and on whether or not it is listed. Care must be exercised 
with respect to whether and how these databases are used, given that they are 
compiled and presented for non-transfer pricing purposes. It is not always the 
case that commercial databases provide information that is detailed enough 
to support the chosen transfer pricing method. Not all databases include the 
same level of detail and can be used with similar assurance. Importantly, it 
is the experience in many jurisdictions that commercial databases are used 
to compare the results of companies rather than of transactions because third 
party transactional information is rarely available. See paragraph 3.37 for a 
discussion of the use of non-transactional third party data.

3.32. 
It  may  be  unnecessary  to  use  a  commercial  database  if  reliable 
information is available from other sources, e.g. internal comparables. Where 
they are used, commercial databases should be used in an objective manner 
and genuine attempts should be made to use the databases to identify reliable 
comparable information.

3.33.  Use  of  commercial  databases  should  not  encourage  quantity  over 
quality. In practice, performing a comparability analysis using a commercial 
database alone may give rise to concerns about the reliability of the analysis, 
given the quality of the information relevant to assessing comparability that 
is typically obtainable from a database. To address these concerns, database 
searches may need to be refined with other publicly available information, 
depending on the facts and circumstances. Such a refinement of the database 
search  with  other  sources  of  information  is  meant  to  promote  quality  over 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS – 159

standardised  approaches  and  is  valid  both  for  database  searches  made  by 
taxpayers/practitioners and for those made by tax administrations. It should 
be understood in light of the discussion of the costs and compliance burden 
created for the taxpayer in paragraphs 3.80-3.83.
3.34.  There  are  also  proprietary  databases  that  are  developed  and 
maintained by some advisory firms. In addition to the issues raised above 
for commercial databases that are more broadly commercialised, proprietary 
databases also raise a further concern with respect to their coverage of data 
if they are based on a more limited portion of the market than commercial 
databases. When a taxpayer has used a proprietary database to support its 
transfer prices, the tax administration may request access to the database to 
review the taxpayer’s results, for obvious transparency reasons.

A.4.3.2. Foreign source or non-domestic comparables

3.35.  Taxpayers  do  not  always  perform  searches  for  comparables  on  a 
jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction  basis,  e.g.  in  cases  where  there  are  insufficient 
data available at the domestic level and/or in order to reduce compliance costs 
where several entities of an MNE group have comparable functional analyses. 
Non-domestic comparables should not be automatically rejected just because 
they are not domestic. A determination of whether non-domestic comparables 
are reliable has to be made on a case-by-case basis and by reference to the 
extent to which they satisfy the five comparability factors. Whether or not one 
regional search for comparables can be reliably used for several subsidiaries 
of  an  MNE  group  operating  in  a  given  region  of  the  world  depends  on 
the  particular  circumstances  in  which  each  of  those  subsidiaries  operates. 
See  paragraphs  1.132-1.133  on  market  differences  and  multi-jurisdictional 
analyses. Difficulties may also arise from differing accounting standards.

A.4.3.3. Information undisclosed to taxpayers

3.36.  Tax  administrators  may  have  information  available  to  them  from 
examinations  of  other  taxpayers  or  from  other  sources  of  information 
that  may  not  be  disclosed  to  the  taxpayer.  However,  it  would  be  unfair  to 
apply  a  transfer  pricing  method  on  the  basis  of  such  data  unless  the  tax 
administration  was  able,  within  the  limits  of  its  domestic  confidentiality 
requirements,  to  disclose  such  data  to  the  taxpayer  so  that  there  would  be 
an adequate opportunity for the taxpayer to defend its own position and to 
safeguard effective judicial control by the courts.

A.4.4. Use of non-transactional third party data

3.37.  The transactional focus of transfer pricing methods and the question of 
a possible aggregation of the taxpayer’s controlled transactions are discussed 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

160 – CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS

in  paragraphs  3.9-3.12.  A  different  question  is  whether  non-transactional 
third par