y available options, economically relevant characteristics 
including assumption of risk (see Section D.1 of Chapter I) and aggregation 
of  transactions  (see  paragraphs  3.9  to  3.12)  apply  fully  to  situations  where 
valuation techniques are utilised in a transfer pricing analysis. Furthermore, 
the rules of these Guidelines on selection of transfer pricing methods apply 
in determining when such techniques should be used (see paragraphs 2.1 to 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

294 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

2.12). The principles of Sections A, B, C, and D.1 of this chapter also apply 
where use of valuation techniques is considered.

6.155. 
It is essential to consider the assumptions and other motivations that 
underlie particular applications of valuation techniques. For sound accounting 
purposes, some valuation assumptions may sometimes reflect conservative 
assumptions  and  estimates  of  the  value  of  assets  reflected  in  a  company’s 
balance  sheet.  This  inherent  conservatism  can  lead  to  definitions  that  are 
too narrow for transfer pricing purposes and valuation approaches that are 
not  necessarily  consistent  with  the  arm’s  length  principle.  Caution  should 
therefore  be  exercised  in  accepting  valuations  performed  for  accounting 
purposes as necessarily reflecting arm’s length prices or values for transfer 
pricing  purposes  without  a  thorough  examination  of  the  underlying 
assumptions.  In  particular,  valuations  of  intangibles  contained  in  purchase 
price allocations performed for accounting purposes are not determinative for 
transfer pricing purposes and should be utilised in a transfer pricing analysis 
with caution and careful consideration of the underlying assumptions.

6.156.  It is not the intention of these Guidelines to set out a comprehensive 
summary  of  the  valuation  techniques  utilised  by  valuation  professionals. 
Similarly,  it  is  not  the  intention  of  these  Guidelines  to  endorse  or  reject 
one or more sets of valuation standards utilised by valuation or accounting 
professionals  or  to  describe  in  detail  or  specifically  endorse  one  or  more 
specific  valuation  techniques  or  methods  as  being  especially  suitable  for 
use  in  a  transfer  pricing  analysis.  However,  where  valuation  techniques 
are  applied  in  a  manner  that  gives  due  regard  to  these  Guidelines,  to  the 
specific  facts  of  the  case,  to  sound  valuation  principles  and  practices,  and 
with appropriate consideration of the validity of the assumptions underlying 
the valuation and the consistency of those assumptions with the arm’s length 
principle, such techniques can be useful tools in a transfer pricing analysis 
where reliable comparable uncontrolled transactions are not available. See, 
however,  paragraphs  6.142  and  6.143  for  a  discussion  of  the  reliability  and 
application of valuation techniques based on intangible development costs.

6.157.  Valuation techniques that estimate the discounted value of projected 
future cash flows derived from the exploitation of the transferred intangible 
or  intangibles  can  be  particularly  useful  when  properly  applied.  There 
are  many  variations  of  these  valuation  techniques.  In  general  terms,  such 
techniques  measure  the  value  of  an  intangible  by  the  estimated  value  of 
future cash flows it may generate over its expected remaining lifetime. The 
value  can  be  calculated  by  discounting  the  expected  future  cash  flows  to 
present value.6 Under this approach valuation requires, among other things, 

6. 

In the case of a financial valuation based on projections, the analysis will often 
be based on projections of cash flows. Accrual based measures of income, such 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 295

defining  realistic  and  reliable  financial  projections,  growth  rates,  discount 
rates,  the  useful  life  of  intangibles,  and  the  tax  effects  of  the  transaction. 
Moreover  it  entails  consideration  of  terminal  values  when  appropriate. 
Depending  on  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the  individual  case,  the 
calculation of the discounted value of projected cash flows derived from the 
exploitation of the intangible should be evaluated from the perspectives of 
both parties to the transaction in arriving at an arm’s length price. The arm’s 
length price will fall somewhere within the range of present values evaluated 
from the perspectives of the transferor and the transferee. Examples 27 to 29 
in Annex I to Chapter VI illustrate the provisions of this section.

D.2.6.4.  Specific areas of concern in applying methods based on the 

discounted value of projected cash flows

6.158.  When applying valuation techniques, including valuation techniques 
based on projected cash flows, it is important to recognise that the estimates 
of value based on