  the 
possibility  to  link  funding  decisions  to  key  development  decisions  which 
will impact the funding return. For example, decisions may have to be made 
on whether to take the project to the next stage or to allow the investments 
in costly assets. The higher the development risk and the closer the financial 
risk is related to the development risk, the more the funder will need to have 
the capability to assess the progress of the development of the intangible and 
the consequences of this progress for achieving its expected funding return, 
and the more closely the funder may link the continued provision of funding 
to  key  operational  developments  that  may  impact  its  financial  risk.  The 
funder will need to have the capability to make the assessments regarding 
the  continued  provision  of  funding,  and  will  need  to  actually  make  such 
assessments, which will then need to be taken into account by the funder in 
actually making the relevant decisions on the provision of funding.

B.2.3. Assumption of risks

6.65. 
Particular  types  of  risk  that  may  have  importance  in  a  functional 
analysis relating to transactions involving intangibles include (i) risks related 
to  development  of  intangibles,  including  the  risk  that  costly  research  and 
development or marketing activities will prove to be unsuccessful, and taking 
into account the timing of the investment (for example, whether the investment 
is made at an early stage, mid-way through the development process, or at a 
late stage will impact the level of the underlying investment risk); (ii) the risk of 
product obsolescence, including the possibility that technological advances of 
competitors will adversely affect the value of the intangibles; (iii) infringement 
risk, including the risk that defence of intangible rights or defence against other 
persons’ claims of infringement may prove to be time consuming, costly and/
or unavailing; (iv) product liability and similar risks related to products and 
services based on the intangibles; and (v) exploitation risks, uncertainties in 
relation to the returns to be generated by the intangible. The existence and level 
of such risks will depend on the facts and circumstances of each individual case 
and the nature of the intangible in question.
6.66.  The  identity  of  the  member  or  members  of  the  group  assuming 
risks  related  to  the  development,  enhancement,  maintenance,  protection, 
and exploitation of intangibles is an important consideration in determining 
prices  for  controlled  transactions.  The  assumption  of  risk  will  determine 
which entity or entities will be responsible for the consequences if the risk 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

268 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

materialises. The accurate delineation of the controlled transaction, based on 
the guidance in Section D.1 of Chapter I, may determine that the legal owner 
assumes  risks  or  that,  instead,  other  members  of  the  group  are  assuming 
risks, and such members must be compensated for their contributions in that 
regard.

In determining which member or members of the group assume risks 
6.67. 
related  to  intangibles,  the  principles  of  Section  D.1.2  of  Chapter  I  apply.  In 
particular, steps 1 to 5 of the process to analyse risk in a controlled transaction 
as  laid  out  in  paragraph  1.60  should  be  followed  in  determining  which 
party  assumes  risks  related  to  the  development,  enhancement,  maintenance, 
protection, and exploitation of intangibles.

6.68. 
It is especially important to ensure that the group member(s) asserting 
entitlement  to  returns  from  assuming  risk  actually  bear  responsibility  for 
the actions that need to be taken and the costs that may be incurred if the 
relevant  risk  materialises.  If  costs  are  borne  or  actions  are  undertaken  by 
an  associated  enterprise  other  than  the  associated  enterprise  assuming  the 
risk  as  determined  under  the  framework  for  analysing  risk  reflected  in 
paragraph 1.60 of these guidelines, then a transfer pricing adjustment should 
be made so that the costs are allocated to the party assuming the risk and the 
other  associated  enterprise  is  appropriately  remunerated  for  any  activities 
undertaken in connection with the materialisation of the risk. Example 7 in 
Annex I to Chapter VI illustrates this principle.

B.2.4. Actual, ex post returns

6.69. 
It is quite common that actual (ex post) profitability is different than 
anticipated (ex ante) profitability. This may result from risks materialising in a 
different way to what was anticipated through the occurrence of unforeseeable 
developments.  For  example,  it  may  happen  that  a  competitive  product  is 
removed  from the market, a natural disaster takes place in a  key  market, a 
key  asset  malfunctions  for  unforeseeable  reasons,  or  that  a  breakthrough 
technological 