o  expand  the 
coverage of their international agreements for exchange of information. The 
implementation of the package will be monitored on an ongoing basis. The 
outcomes  of  this  monitoring  will  be  taken  into  consideration  in  the  2020 
review.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 245

Chapter VI 

Special considerations for intangibles

6.1. 
Under  Article  9  of  the  OECD  Model  Tax  Convention,  where  the 
conditions  made  or  imposed  in  the  use  or  transfer  of  intangibles  between 
two  associated  enterprises  differ  from  those  that  would  be  made  between 
independent enterprises, then any profits that would, but for those conditions, 
have  accrued  to  one  of  the  enterprises,  but,  by  reason  of  those  conditions, 
have  not  so  accrued,  may  be  included  in  the  profits  of  that  enterprise  and 
taxed accordingly.

6.2. 
The purpose of this Chapter VI is to provide guidance specially tailored 
to  determining  arm’s  length  conditions  for  transactions  that  involve  the  use 
or  transfer  of  intangibles.  Article  9  of  the  OECD  Model  Tax  Convention  is 
concerned with the conditions of transactions between associated enterprises, 
not  with  assigning  particular  labels  to  such  transactions.  Consequently,  the 
key consideration is whether a transaction conveys economic value from one 
associated  enterprise  to  another,  whether  that  benefit  derives  from  tangible 
property, intangibles, services or other items or activities. An item or activity 
can  convey  economic  value  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  it  may  not  be 
specifically  addressed  in  Chapter  VI.  To  the  extent  that  an  item  or  activity 
conveys economic value, it should be taken into account in the determination 
of  arm’s  length  prices  whether  or  not  it  constitutes  an  intangible  within  the 
meaning of paragraph 6.6.

6.3. 
The principles of Chapters I-III of these Guidelines apply equally to 
transactions involving intangibles and those transactions which do not. Under 
those principles, as is the case with other transfer pricing matters, the analysis 
of  cases  involving  the  use  or  transfer  of  intangibles  should  begin  with  a 
thorough  identification  of  the  commercial  or  financial  relations  between 
the  associated  enterprises  and  the  conditions  and  economically  relevant 
circumstances attaching to those relations in order that the actual transaction 
involving  the  use  or  transfer  of  intangibles  is  accurately  delineated.  The 
functional  analysis  should  identify  the  functions  performed,  assets  used, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
246 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

and  risks  assumed1  by  each  relevant  member  of  the  MNE  group.  In  cases 
involving  the  use  or  transfer  of  intangibles,  it  is  especially  important  to 
ground  the  functional  analysis  on  an  understanding  of  the  MNE’s  global 
business and the manner in which intangibles are used by the MNE to add 
or create value across the entire supply chain. Where necessary, the analysis 
should consider, within the framework of Section D.2 of Chapter I, whether 
independent parties would have entered into the arrangement and if so, the 
conditions that would have been agreed.

6.4. 
In order to determine arm’s length conditions for the use or transfer 
of  intangibles  it  is  important  to  perform  a  functional  and  comparability 
analysis in accordance with Section D.1 of Chapter I, based on identifying 
the  intangibles  and  associated  risks  in  contractual  arrangements  and  then 
supplementing the analysis through examination of the actual conduct of the 
parties  based  on  the  functions  performed,  assets  used,  and  risks  assumed, 
including control of important functions and economically significant risks. 
Accordingly the next section, Section A, provides guidance on identifying 
intangibles. Section B examines legal ownership and other contractual terms, 
together with guidance on the evaluation of the conduct of the parties based 
on  functions,  assets  and  risks.  Section  C  outlines  some  typical  scenarios 
involving intangibles, and Section D provides guidance on determining arm’s 
length conditions including the application of pricing methods and valuation 
techniques, and provides an approach to determining arm’s length conditions 
for a specific category of hard-to-value intangibles. Examples illustrating the 
guidance are contained in the Annex to this chapter.

A. Identifying intangibles

A.1. In general

6.5. 
Difficulties  can  arise  in  a  transfer  pricing  analysis  as  a  result  of 
definitions of the term intangible that are either too narrow or too broad. If an 
overly narrow definition of the term intangible is applied, either taxpayers or 
governments may argue that certain items fall outside the definition and may 
therefore b