not appropriate and, consequently, transfer pricing 
adjustments will not be based on the CbC Report. Inappropriate adjustments 
in contravention of this paragraph made by local tax administrations will be 
conceded in any competent authority proceedings. Notwithstanding the above, 
there is no prohibition on using the CbC Report data as a basis for making 
further  enquiries  into  the  MNE  Group’s  transfer  pricing  arrangements  or 
into other tax matters in the course of a tax audit and, as a result, appropriate 
adjustments to the taxable income of a Constituent Entity may be made.

To the extent permitted under applicable law, a Competent Authority 
3. 
will  notify  the  Co-ordinating  Body  Secretariat  immediately  of  any  cases 
of  non-compliance  with  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Section,  including  any 
remedial actions, as well as any measures taken in respect of non-compliance 
with the above-mentioned paragraphs. The Co-ordinating Body Secretariat 
will  notify  all  Competent  Authorities  with  respect  to  which  this  is  an 
Agreement in effect with the first-mentioned Competent Authority.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 575

SECTION 6
Consultations

1. 
In case an adjustment of the taxable income of a Constituent Entity, 
as a result of further enquiries based on the data in the CbC Report, leads to 
undesirable economic outcomes, including if such cases arise for a specific 
business, the Competent Authorities of the Jurisdictions in which the affected 
Constituent Entities are resident shall consult each other and discuss with the 
aim of resolving the case.

2. 
If  any  difficulties  in  the  implementation  or  interpretation  of  this 
Agreement arise, a Competent Authority may request consultations with one or 
more of the Competent Authorities to develop appropriate measures to ensure 
that this Agreement is fulfilled. In particular, a Competent Authority shall consult 
with  the  other  Competent  Authority,  before  the  first-mentioned  Competent 
Authority determines that there is a systemic failure to exchange CbC Reports 
with  the  other  Competent  Authority.  Where  the  first  mentioned  Competent 
Authority  makes  such  a  determination  it  shall  notify  the  Co-ordinating  Body 
Secretariat  which,  after  having  informed  the  other  Competent  Authority 
concerned,  will  notify  all  Competent  Authorities.  To  the  extent  permitted  by 
applicable law, either Competent Authority may, and if it so wishes through the 
Co-ordinating Body Secretariat, involve other Competent Authorities that have 
this Agreement in effect with a view to finding an acceptable resolution to the 
issue.

3. 
The Competent Authority that requested the consultations pursuant 
to  paragraph  2  shall  ensure,  as  appropriate,  that  the  Co-ordinating  Body 
Secretariat is notified of any conclusions that were reached and measures that 
were developed, including the absence of such conclusions or measures, and 
the  Co-ordinating  Body  Secretariat  will  notify  all  Competent  Authorities, 
even those that did not participate in the consultations, of any such conclusions 
or measures. Taxpayer-specific information, including information that would 
reveal the identity of the taxpayer involved, is not to be furnished.

SECTION 7
Amendments

This Agreement may be amended by consensus by written agreement of 
all of the Competent Authorities that have the Agreement in effect. Unless 
otherwise agreed upon, such an amendment is effective on the first day of the 
month following the expiration of a period of one month after the date of the 
last signature of such written agreement.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

576 – ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

SECTION 8
Term of Agreement

1. 
A  Competent  Authority  must  provide,  at  the  time  of  signature 
of  this  Agreement  or  as  soon  as  possible  thereafter,  a  notification  to  the 
Co-ordinating Body Secretariat:

a) 

that  its  Jurisdiction  has  the  necessary  laws  in  place  to  require 
Reporting Entities to file a CbC Report and that its Jurisdiction 
will require the filing of CbC Reports with respect to fiscal years 
of Reporting Entities commencing on or after the date set out in 
the notification;

b)  specifying whether the Jurisdiction is to be included in the list of 

non-reciprocal Jurisdictions;

c)  specifying one or more methods for electronic data transmission 

including encryption;

d) 

e) 

that it has in place the necessary legal framework and infrastructure 
to ensure the required confidentiality and data safeguards standards 
in accordance with Article 22 of the Convention and paragraph 1 
and Section 5 of this Agreement, as well as the appropriate use of 
the information in the CbC Reports as described in paragraph 2 
of  Section  5  of  th