nditions 
made or imposed may be necessary.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 369

9.31.  The  reference  to  the  notion  of  options  realistically  available  is  not 
intended  to  create  a  requirement  for  taxpayers  to  document  all  possible 
hypothetical options realistically available. Rather, the intention is to provide 
an  indication  that,  if  there  is  a  realistically  available  option  that  is  clearly 
more attractive, it should be considered in the analysis of the conditions of 
the restructuring.

B.4. Transfer pricing documentation for business restructurings

9.32. 
In the master file (see Annex I to Chapter V), taxpayers are asked to 
describe any important business restructuring transactions occurring during 
the year. In addition, in the local file, taxpayers are asked to indicate whether 
the local entity has been involved in or affected by business restructurings 
occurring during the year or immediately past year and to explain the aspects 
of such transactions affecting the local entity (see Annex II to Chapter V).

9.33.  As  part  of  their  transfer  pricing  documentation,  MNE  groups  are 
recommended to document their decisions and intentions regarding business 
restructurings,  especially  as  regards  their  decisions  to  assume  or  transfer 
significant  risks,  before  the  relevant  transactions  occur,  and  to  document 
the  evaluation  of  the  consequences  on  profit  potential  of  significant  risk 
allocations resulting from the restructuring. In describing the assumption of 
risk as part of a business restructuring, it is recommended that taxpayers use 
the framework set out in Section D.1.2.1 of Chapter I.

C.  Recognition of the accurately delineated transactions that comprise 

the business restructuring

9.34.  MNEs are free to organise their business operations as they see fit. 
Tax administrations do not have the right to dictate to an MNE how to design 
its structure or where to locate its business operations. In making commercial 
decisions, tax considerations may be a factor. Tax administrations, however, 
have the right to determine the tax consequences of the structure put in place 
by an MNE, subject to the application of treaties and in particular of Article 9 
of  the  OECD  Model  Tax  Convention.  This  means  that  tax  administrations 
may  make,  where  appropriate,  adjustments  to  profits  in  accordance  with 
Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax Convention and other types of adjustments 
allowed  by  their  domestic  law  (e.g.  under  general  or  specific  anti-abuse 
rules),  to  the  extent  that  such  adjustments  are  compatible  with  their  treaty 
obligations.

9.35.  Business  restructurings  often  lead  MNE  groups  to  implement 
global  business  models  that  are  hardly  if  ever  found  between  independent 
enterprises, taking advantage of the very fact that they are MNE groups and 
that they can work in an integrated fashion. For instance, MNE groups may 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

370 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

implement global supply chains or centralised functions that may not be found 
between  independent  enterprises.  This  lack  of  comparables  does  not  mean 
that the implementation of such global business models is not arm’s length. 
Every  effort  should  be  made  to  determine  the  pricing  for  the  restructured 
transactions as accurately delineated under the arm’s length principle. A tax 
administration should not disregard part or all of the restructuring or substitute 
other  transactions  for  it  unless  the  exceptional  circumstances  described 
in  paragraph  1.142  are  met.  In  those  cases,  the  guidance  in  Section  D.2  of 
Chapter I may be applicable. The structure that for transfer pricing purposes, 
replaces that actually adopted by the taxpayers should comport as closely as 
possible with the facts of the actual transaction undertaken whilst achieving 
a commercially rational expected result that would have enabled the parties 
to come to a price acceptable to both of them at the time the arrangement was 
entered into. For example, where one element of a restructuring arrangement 
involves  the  closing  down  of  a  factory,  the  structure  adopted  for  transfer 
pricing purposes cannot ignore the reality that the factory no longer operates. 
Similarly, where one element of a restructuring involves the actual relocation 
of substantive business functions, the structure adopted for transfer pricing 
purposes cannot ignore the fact that those functions were actually relocated.

In assessing the commercial rationality of a restructuring under the 
9.36. 
guidance  for  non-recognition  under  Section  D.2  of  Chapter  I,  the  question 
may  arise  whether  to  look  at  one  transaction  in  isolation  or  whether  to 
examine  it  in  a  broader  context,  taking  account  of  other  tr