urrency terms. For some 
commodities,  certain  economically  relevant  characteristics  (e.g.  prompt 
delivery)  may  lead  to  a  premium  or  a  discount.  If  the  quoted  price  is  used 
as  a  reference  for  determining  the  arm’s  length  price  or  price  range,  the 
standardised  contracts  which  stipulate  specifications  on  the  basis  of  which 
commodities are traded on the exchange and which result in a quoted price 
for the commodity may be relevant. Where there are differences between the 
conditions of the controlled transaction and the conditions of the uncontrolled 
transactions or the conditions determining the quoted price for the commodity 
that  materially  affect  the  price  of  the  commodity  transactions  being 
examined,  reasonably  accurate  adjustments  should  be  made  to  ensure  that 
the economically relevant characteristics of the transactions are comparable. 
Contributions  made  in  the  form  of  functions  performed,  assets  used  and 
risks assumed by other entities in the supply chain should be compensated in 
accordance with the guidance provided in these Guidelines.
2.21. 
In  order  to  assist  tax  administrations  in  conducting  an  informed 
examination  of  the  taxpayer’s  transfer  pricing  practices,  taxpayers  should 
provide  reliable  evidence  and  document,  as  part  of  their  transfer  pricing 
documentation,  the  price-setting  policy  for  commodity  transactions,  the 
information  needed  to  justify  price  adjustments  based  on  the  comparable 
uncontrolled transactions or comparable uncontrolled arrangements represented 
by the quoted price and any other relevant information, such as pricing formulas 
used, third party end-customer agreements, premia or discounts applied, pricing 
date, supply chain information, and information prepared for non-tax purposes.
2.22.  A particularly relevant factor for commodity transactions determined 
by  reference  to  the  quoted  price  is  the  pricing  date,  which  refers  to  the 
specific time, date or time period (e.g. a specified range of dates over which 
an  average  price  is  determined)  selected  by  the  parties  to  determine  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

100 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

price  for  commodity  transactions.  Where  the  taxpayer  can  provide  reliable 
evidence  of  the  pricing  date  agreed  by  the  associated  enterprises  in  the 
controlled commodity transaction at the time the transaction was entered into 
(e.g.  proposals  and  acceptances,  contracts  or  registered  contracts,  or  other 
documents setting out the terms of the arrangements may constitute reliable 
evidence)  and  this  is  consistent  with  the  actual  conduct  of  the  parties  or 
with other facts of the case, in accordance with the guidance in Section D of 
Chapter I on accurately delineating the actual transaction, tax administrations 
should determine the price for the commodity transaction by reference to the 
pricing date agreed by the associated enterprises. If the pricing date specified 
in any written agreement between the associated enterprises is inconsistent 
with  the  actual  conduct  of  the  parties  or  with  other  facts  of  the  case,  tax 
administrations may determine a different pricing date consistent with those 
other facts of the case and what independent enterprises would have agreed 
in comparable circumstances (taking into considerations industry practices). 
When  the  taxpayer  does  not  provide  reliable  evidence  of  the  pricing  date 
agreed by the associated enterprises in the controlled transaction and the tax 
administration cannot otherwise determine a different pricing date under the 
guidance in Section D of Chapter I, tax administrations may deem the pricing 
date for the commodity transaction on the basis of the evidence available to 
the tax administration; this may be the date of shipment as evidenced by the 
bill of lading or equivalent document depending on the means of transport. 
This would mean that the price for the commodities being transacted would 
be determined by reference to the average quoted price on the shipment date, 
subject to any appropriate comparability adjustments based on the information 
available to the tax administration. It would be important to permit resolution 
of cases of double taxation arising from application of the deemed pricing date 
through access to the mutual agreement procedure under the applicable Treaty.

B.2.  Examples of the application of the CUP method

2.23.  The following examples illustrate the application of the CUP method, 
including situations where adjustments may need to be made to uncontrolled 
transactions to make them comparable uncontrolled transactions.

2.24.  The CUP method is a particularly reliable method where an independent 
enterprise sells the same product as is sold between two associated enterprises. 
For example, an independent en