ial  statements  and  other  financial 
information that may be relevant for the country-by-country data described in 
Annex III may not be finalised until after the due date for tax returns in some 
jurisdictions for a given fiscal year. Under the given circumstances, the date 
for completion of the Country-by-Country Report described in Annex III to 
Chapter V of these Guidelines may be extended to one year following the last 
day of the fiscal year of the ultimate parent of the MNE group.

D.3. Materiality

5.32.  Not  all  transactions  that  occur  between  associated  enterprises  are 
sufficiently  material  to  require  full  documentation  in  the  local  file.  Tax 
administrations  have  an  interest  in  seeing  the  most  important  information 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION – 235

while at the same time they also have an interest in seeing that MNE groups 
are not so overwhelmed with compliance demands that they fail to consider 
and  document  the  most  important  items.  Thus,  jurisdictional  transfer 
pricing  documentation  requirements  based  on  Annex  II  to  Chapter  V  of 
these  Guidelines  should  include  specific  materiality  thresholds  that  take 
into account the size and the nature of the local economy, the importance of 
the MNE group in that economy, and the size and nature of local operating 
entities,  in  addition  to  the  overall  size  and  nature  of  the  MNE  group. 
Measures of materiality may be considered in relative terms (e.g. transactions 
not exceeding a percentage of revenue or a percentage of cost measure) or 
in  absolute  amount  terms  (e.g.  transactions  not  exceeding  a  certain  fixed 
amount).  Individual  jurisdictions  should  establish  their  own  materiality 
standards for local file purposes, based on local conditions. The materiality 
standards should be objective standards that are commonly understood and 
accepted  in  commercial  practice.  See  paragraph  5.18  for  the  materiality 
standards applicable in completing the master file.

5.33.  A  number  of  jurisdictions  have  introduced  in  their  transfer  pricing 
documentation rules simplification measures which exempt small and medium-
sized  enterprises  (SMEs)  from  transfer  pricing  documentation  requirements 
or  limit  the  information  required  to  be  provided  by  such  enterprises.  In 
order  not  to  impose  on  taxpayers  costs  and  burdens  disproportionate  to 
the  circumstances,  it  is  recommended  to  not  require  SMEs  to  produce  the 
amount  of  documentation  that  might  be  expected  from  larger  enterprises. 
However,  SMEs  should  be  obliged  to  provide  information  and  documents 
about their material cross-border transactions upon a specific request of the tax 
administration in the course of a tax examination or for transfer pricing risk 
assessment purposes.

5.34.  For  purposes  of  Annex  III  to  Chapter  V  of  these  Guidelines,  the 
Country-by-Country Report should include all tax jurisdictions in which the 
MNE group has an entity resident for tax purposes, regardless of the size of 
business operations in that tax jurisdiction.

D.4. Retention of documents

5.35.  Taxpayers  should  not  be  obliged  to  retain  documents  beyond  a 
reasonable period consistent with the requirements of domestic law at either 
the  parent  company  or  local  entity  level.  However,  at  times  materials  and 
information required in the documentation package (master file, local file and 
Country-by-Country  Report)  may  be  relevant  to  a  transfer  pricing  enquiry 
for  a  subsequent  year  that  is  not  time  barred,  for  example  where  taxpayers 
voluntarily keep such records in relation to long-term contracts, or to determine 
whether comparability standards relating to the application of a transfer pricing 
method in that subsequent year are satisfied. Tax administrations should bear in 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

236 – CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION

mind the difficulties in locating documents for prior years and should restrict 
such requests to instances where they have good reason in connection with the 
transaction under examination for reviewing the documents in question.

5.36.  Because the tax administration’s ultimate interest would be satisfied 
if  the  necessary  documents  were  submitted  in  a  timely  manner  when 
requested  by  the  tax  administration  in  the  course  of  an  examination,  the 
way that documentation is stored – whether in paper, electronic form, or in 
any other system – should be at the discretion of the taxpayer provided that 
relevant information can promptly be made available to the tax administration 
in the form specified by the local rules and practices in each jurisdiction.

D.5. Frequency of documentation updates

5.37. 
It is recommended that transfer pricing documentation be periodically 
reviewed  in  order  to  determine 