utsourcing cases, it may happen that a party voluntarily decides 
to undergo a restructuring and to bear the associated restructuring costs in 
exchange  for  anticipated  savings.  For  instance,  assume  a  taxpayer  that  is 
manufacturing  and  selling  products  in  a  high-cost  jurisdiction  decides  to 
outsource  the  manufacturing  activity  to  an  associated  enterprise  situated 
in  a  low-cost  jurisdiction.  Further  to  the  restructuring,  the  taxpayer  will 
purchase from its associated enterprise the products manufactured and will 
continue to sell them to third party customers. The restructuring may entail 
restructuring costs for the taxpayer while at the same time making it possible 
for it to benefit from cost savings on future procurements compared to its 
own  manufacturing  costs.  Independent  parties  implementing  this  type  of 
outsourcing arrangement may not necessarily require explicit compensation 
from  the  transferee,  for  example,  where  the  anticipated  benefits  for  the 
transferor are greater than its restructuring costs.4

F.  Indemnification of the restructured entity for the termination or 

substantial renegotiation of existing arrangements

9.75. 
Section F addresses the question of whether the restructured entity, 
at arm’s length, should receive compensation, in the form of indemnification, 
upon the termination or substantial renegotiation of its existing arrangements, 
which may or may not involve a transfer of something of value (addressed in 
the previous section). For the purpose of this chapter, indemnification means 
any  type  of  compensation  that  may  be  paid  for  detriments  suffered  by  the 

4. 

A further issue discussed in Section D.6 of  Chapter I and Section E of Part II 
of  this  Chapter  is  whether  and  if  so  how  location  savings  should  be  allocated 
between the parties at arm’s length.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

384 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

restructured entity, whether in the form of an up-front payment, of a sharing 
in  restructuring  costs,  of  lower  (or  higher)  purchase  (or  sale)  prices  in  the 
context of the post-restructuring operations, or of any other form.

9.76.  Terminations  or  renegotiations  of  arrangements  generally  involve 
changes in the risk and functional profiles of the parties, with consequences 
for the allocation of profit potential between them. In addition, the termination 
or  renegotiation  of  contractual  relationships  in  the  context  of  a  business 
restructuring  might  cause  the  restructured  entity  to  suffer  detriments  such 
as  restructuring  costs  (e.g.  write-off  of  assets,  termination  of  employment 
contracts), re-conversion costs (e.g. in order to adapt its existing operation to 
other customer needs), and/or a loss of profit potential. In these situations, the 
question arises of whether, at arm’s length, indemnification should be paid to 
the restructured entity, and if so how to determine such an indemnification.

9.77.  When  the  termination  or  renegotiation  of  existing  arrangements 
involves the transfer of something of value (e.g. the termination of a distribution 
contract is sometimes accompanied by a transfer of intangibles), the guidance 
in  Section  E  applies  to  the  transfer  of  something  of  value,  and  this  section 
considers whether further compensation may be warranted for any detriments 
suffered.

9.78.  There  should  be  no  presumption  that  all  contract  terminations  or 
substantial renegotiations should give a right to indemnification at arm’s length, 
as this will depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. The analysis 
of whether an indemnification would be warranted at arm’s length should be 
made on the basis of the accurate delineation of the arrangements before and 
after the restructuring (based on the guidance in Section D.1 of Chapter I and 
Section B.1 of this Part) and the options realistically available to the parties.

9.79.  Once the restructuring arrangements have been accurately delineated 
and the options realistically available to the parties have been assessed, the 
following aspects should be considered:

•  Whether commercial law supports rights to indemnification for the 
restructured entity under the facts of the case as accurately delineated 
(see Section F.1 below);

•  Whether  the  existence  or  absence  of  an  indemnification  clause  or 
similar  provisions  (as  well  as  the  terms  of  such  a  clause  where  it 
exists) under the terms of the arrangement, as accurately delineated, 
is arm’s length (see Section F.2 below).

•  Which  party  should  ultimately  bear  the  costs  related  to  the 
indemnification  of  the  party  that  suffers  from  the  termination  or 
re-negotiation of the agreement (see Section F.3 below).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 385

F.1.  Whether commercia