se to another 
or which in an arm’s length arrangement would be charged by one associated 
enterprise to another. For example, exchange controls may effectively prevent 
an associated enterprise from transferring interest payments abroad on a loan 
made by another associated enterprise located in a different jurisdiction. This 
circumstance  may  be  treated  differently  by  the  two  jurisdictions  involved: 
the  jurisdiction  of  the  borrower  may  or  may  not  regard  the  untransferred 
interest as having been paid, and the jurisdiction of the lender may or may not 
treat the lender as having received the interest. As a general rule, where the 
government intervention applies equally to transactions between associated 
enterprises  and  transactions  between  independent  enterprises  (both  in  law 
and in fact), the approach to this problem where it occurs between associated 
enterprises  should  be  the  same  for  tax  purposes  as  that  adopted  for  trans-
actions between independent enterprises. Where the government intervention 
applies only to transactions between associated enterprises, there is no simple 
solution to the problem. Perhaps one way to deal with the issue is to apply the 
arm’s length principle viewing the intervention as a condition affecting the 
terms  of  the  transaction.  Treaties  may  specifically  address  the  approaches 
available to the treaty partners where such circumstances exist.

1.155.  A difficulty with this analysis is that often independent enterprises 
simply would not enter into a transaction in which payments were blocked. 
An  independent  enterprise  might  find  itself  in  such  an  arrangement  from 
time to time, most likely because the government interventions were imposed 
subsequent  to  the  time  that  the  arrangement  began.  But  it  seems  unlikely 
that an independent enterprise would willingly subject itself to a substantial 
risk  of  non-payment  for  products  or  services  rendered  by  entering  into  an 
arrangement  when  severe  government  interventions  already  existed  unless 
the profit projections or anticipated return from the independent enterprise’s 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

80 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

proposed  business  strategy  are  sufficient  to  yield  it  an  acceptable  rate  of 
return notwithstanding the existence of the government intervention that may 
affect payment.

1.156.  Because  independent  enterprises  might  not  engage  in  a  transaction 
subject  to  government  interventions,  it  is  unclear  how  the  arm’s  length 
principle  should  apply.  One  possibility  is  to  treat  the  payment  as  having 
been  made  between  the  associated  enterprises,  on  the  assumption  that  an 
independent  enterprise  in  a  similar  circumstance  would  have  insisted  on 
payment by some other means. This approach would treat the party to whom 
the  blocked  payment  is  owed  as  performing  a  service  for  the  MNE  group. 
An alternative approach that may be available in some jurisdictions would be 
to defer both the income and the relevant expenses of the taxpayer. In other 
words, the party to whom this blocked payment was due would not be allowed 
to  deduct  expenses,  such  as  additional  financing  costs,  until  the  blocked 
payment  was  made.  The  concern  of  tax  administrations  in  these  situations 
is  mainly  their  respective  tax  bases.  If  an  associated  enterprise  claims  a 
deduction in its tax computations for a blocked payment, then there should 
be corresponding income to the other party. In any case, a taxpayer should 
not be permitted to treat blocked payments due from an associated enterprise 
differently from blocked payments due from an independent enterprise.

D.5.  Use of customs valuations

1.157.  The  arm’s  length  principle  is  applied,  broadly  speaking,  by  many 
customs  administrations  as  a  principle  of  comparison  between  the  value 
attributable  to  goods  imported  by  associated  enterprises,  which  may  be 
affected by the special relationship between them, and the value for similar 
goods imported by independent enterprises. Valuation methods for customs 
purposes however may not be aligned with the OECD’s recognised transfer 
pricing methods. That being said, customs valuations may be useful to tax 
administrations  in  evaluating  the  arm’s  length  character  of  a  controlled 
transaction transfer price and vice versa. In particular, customs officials may 
have contemporaneous information regarding the transaction that could be 
relevant for transfer pricing purposes, especially if prepared by the taxpayer, 
while tax authorities may have transfer pricing documentation which provides 
detailed information on the circumstances of the transaction.

1.158.  Taxpayers  may  have  competing  incentives  in  setting  values  for 
customs and tax purposes. In general, a taxpayer importing goods m