arties  may 
have  integrated  or  joint  functions  and  assets  relating  to  the  production 
or  acquisition  of  goods  and  services.  If  the  accurate  delineation  of  the 
transaction determines that the parties share the assumption of, in addition 
to market and production risks, a further range of risks that affect the level 
of operating expenses that may include investment in intangibles, it would 
be most appropriate to use operating profits as the basis of the split. In this 
scenario,  the  parties  may  have  integrated  or  joint  functions  relating  to  the 
entire value chain.

2.164.  For example, two associated enterprises, each with its own manufacturing 
specialisation  and  unique  and  valuable  intangibles,  agree  to  contribute  the 
intangibles to produce innovative, complex products. The accurate delineation 
of  the transaction determines that the enterprises in this example  share the 
assumption of risks associated with the success or otherwise of the products in 
the marketplace. However, they do not share the assumption of risks associated 
with their selling and other expenses, which are largely unintegrated. Using 
a profit split based on combined operating profits after all expenses of both 
parties would have the potential result of sharing the consequences of risks 
that are assumed by only one of the parties. In such cases, a splitting of gross 
profits may be more appropriate and reliable since this level of profits captures 
the outcomes of market and production activities that the parties share together 
with the assumption of associated risks. Similarly, in the case of associated 
enterprises that engage in highly integrated worldwide trading operations, if 
the accurate delineation of the actual transaction determines that the shared 
assumption of risks and level of integration does not extend to operating costs, 
it may be appropriate to split the gross profits from each trading activity, and 
then deduct from the resulting share of the overall gross profits allocated to 
each enterprise its own operating expenses incurred.

2.165.  Example 14 in Annex II to Chapter II illustrates the principles of this 
section.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

142 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

C.5.  Splitting the profits

2.166.  Profits should be split on an economically valid basis that reflects the 
relative contributions of the parties to the transaction and thus approximates 
the  division  of  profits  that  would  have  obtained  at  arm’s  length.  The 
relevance of comparable uncontrolled transactions or internal data (see Sec-
tion C.5.2) and the criteria used to achieve an arm’s length division of the 
profits depend on the facts and circumstances of the case. It is therefore not 
desirable to establish a prescriptive list of criteria or profit splitting factors. 
See paragraphs 2.146-2.148 for general guidance on the consistency of the 
determination  of  the  splitting  factors.  In  addition,  the  criteria  or  splitting 
factors used to split the profit should be:

• 

• 

• 

independent of transfer pricing policy formulation, i.e. they should 
be based on objective data (e.g. sales to independent parties), not on 
data relating to the remuneration of controlled transactions (e.g. sales 
to associated enterprises),

verifiable, and

supported by comparables data, internal data, or both.

2.167.  One  possible  approach  is  to  split  the  relevant  profits  based  on  the 
division  of  profits  that  actually  is  observed  in  comparable  uncontrolled 
transactions.  Examples  of  possible  sources  of  information  on  uncontrolled 
transactions that might usefully assist the determination of criteria to split 
the  profits,  depending  on  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the  case,  include 
joint-venture  arrangements  between  independent  parties  under  which 
profits are shared, such as development projects in the oil and gas industry; 
pharmaceutical  collaborations,  co-marketing  or  co-promotion  agreements; 
arrangements  between  independent  music  record  labels  and  music  artists; 
uncontrolled arrangements in the financial services sector, etc.

2.168.  However, it can be difficult to find reliable comparables data that can 
be used in this manner. Nevertheless, external market data can be relevant 
in  the  profit  split  analysis  to  assess  the  value  of  contributions  that  each 
associated  enterprise  makes  to  the  transactions.  In  effect,  the  assumption 
is  that  independent  parties  would  have  split  relevant  profits  in  proportion 
to  the  value  of  their  respective  contributions  to  the  generation  of  profit 
in  the  transaction.  Thus,  where  there  is  no  more  direct  evidence  of  how 
independent parties in comparable circumstances would have split the profit 
in  comparable  transactions,  the  allocation  of  profits  may  be  based  on  the 
relative contribution