’s length compensation may be appropriate). It would not be 
appropriate in such a case to increase the price for the service above what 
would be established by the CUP method just to make sure the associated 
enterprise makes a profit. Such a result would be contrary to the arm’s length 
principle. However, it is important to ensure that all benefits to the recipient 
are properly taken into account.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES – 325

7.37.  While as a matter of principle tax administrations and taxpayers should 
try  to  establish  the  proper  arm’s  length  pricing,  it  should  not  be  overlooked 
that there may be practical reasons why a tax administration in its discretion 
exceptionally  might  be  willing  to  forgo  computing  and  taxing  an  arm’s 
length price from the performance of services in some cases, as distinct from 
allowing a taxpayer in appropriate circumstances to merely allocate the costs 
of providing those services. For instance, a cost-benefit analysis might indicate 
the additional tax revenue that would be collected does not justify the costs 
and administrative burdens of determining what an appropriate arm’s length 
price might be in some cases. In such cases, charging all relevant costs rather 
than an arm’s length price may provide a satisfactory result for MNEs and tax 
administrations. This concession is unlikely to be made by tax administrations 
where  the  provision  of  a  service  is  a  principal  activity  of  the  associated 
enterprise,  where  the  profit  element  is  relatively  significant,  or  where  direct 
charging is possible as a basis from which to determine the arm’s length price.

C. Some examples of intra-group services

7.38.  This  section  sets  forth  several  examples  of  transfer  pricing  issues 
in  the  provision  of  intra-group  services.  The  examples  are  provided  for 
illustrative purposes only. When dealing with individual cases, it is necessary 
to explore the actual facts and circumstances to judge the applicability of any 
transfer pricing method.

7.39.  One  example  involves  debt-factoring  activities,  where  an  MNE 
group decides to centralise the activities for economic reasons. For example, 
it may be prudent to centralise the debt-factoring activities to better manage 
liquidity, currency and debt risks and to provide administrative efficiencies. 
A debt-factoring centre that takes on this responsibility is performing intra-
group  services  for  which  an  arm’s  length  charge  should  be  made.  A  CUP 
method could be appropriate in such a case.

7.40.  Another example of an activity that may involve intra-group services 
is  manufacturing  or  assembly  operations.  The  activities  can  take  a  variety 
of forms including what is commonly referred to as contract manufacturing. 
In  some  cases  of  contract  manufacturing  the  producer  may  operate  under 
extensive instruction from the counterparty about what to produce, in what 
quantity  and  of  what  quality.  In  some  cases,  raw  materials  or  components 
may be made available to the producer by the counterparty. The production 
company may be assured that its entire output will be purchased, assuming 
quality requirements are met. In such a case the production company could be 
considered as performing a low-risk service to the counterparty, and the cost 
plus method could be the most appropriate transfer pricing method, subject 
to the principles in Chapter II.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

326 – CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES

7.41.  Research  is  similarly  an  example  of  an  activity  that  may  involve 
intra-group  services.  The  terms  of  the  activity  can  be  set  out  in  a  detailed 
contract  with  the  party  commissioning  the  service,  commonly  known  as 
contract research. The activity can involve highly skilled personnel and vary 
considerably both in its nature and in its importance to the success of the group. 
The actual arrangements can take a variety of forms from the undertaking of 
detailed programmes laid down by the principal party, extending to agreements 
where  the  research  company  has  discretion  to  work  within  broadly  defined 
categories.  In  the  latter  instance,  the  additional  functions  of  identifying 
commercially  valuable  areas  and  assessing  the  risk  of  unsuccessful  research 
can be a critical factor in the performance of the group as a whole. It is therefore 
crucial  to  undertake  a  detailed  functional  analysis  and  to  obtain  a  clear 
understanding of the precise nature of the research, and of how the activities 
are being carried out by the company, prior to consideration of the appropriate 
transfer pricing methodology. The consideration of options realistically available 
to the party commissioning the research may also prove useful in selecting the 
most appropriate transfer pricing method. See