ransfer  pricing  cases  that  now  take  up  a  great  deal  of  time  and 
effort when processed on a case by case basis. Competent authorities are of 
course free to modify, add or delete any provision of the sample agreement 
when concluding their own bilateral agreements.

Reasons for concluding a bilateral safe harbour MOU

As described in  Chapter IV, Section E.4 of these Guidelines, one of the 
potential  problems  arising  from  the  use  of  unilateral  transfer  pricing  safe 
harbours is that they may increase the risk of double taxation and double non-
taxation. This can occur if the jurisdiction granting the unilateral safe harbour 
shades  the  safe  harbour  towards  the  high  end  of  an  acceptable  arm’s  length 
profit range, while a treaty partner on the other end of the transaction disagrees 
with the assertion that the defined safe harbour profit level reflects arm’s length 
dealing. Some critics contend that there is a tendency for safe harbour profit 
ranges  to  increase  over  time,  exacerbating  this  potential  problem.  It  is  also 
sometimes suggested that unilateral safe harbours can tend to force taxpayers 
into reporting higher than arm’s length levels of income, and to incur some 
resulting double taxation, as the price to be paid for administrative convenience 
and simplicity. Finally, unilateral safe harbours can, at times, provide a windfall 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
494 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER IV: SAMPLE MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING FOR SAFE HARBOURS

to taxpayers whose specific facts might suggest that income above the safe 
harbour level would be more consistent with arm’s length dealing.

These double tax and windfall issues would likely be quite pronounced 
in  connection  with  safe  harbours  directed  at  some  of  the  most  common 
types of transfer pricing transactions. Transactions such as sales of goods 
to  a  local  distribution  affiliate  for  resale  on  a  limited  risk  basis  in  the 
local market, contract manufacturing arrangements, and contract research 
arrangements could clearly raise these issues. It is perhaps for this reason 
that few jurisdictions, if any, have developed functioning safe harbours for 
dealing with these common types of transfer pricing issues.

Distribution margins and manufacturing mark-ups can sometimes be 
quite consistent across geographies and across many industries. Therefore 
guidance on normal settlement ranges for these types of cases could have 
the effect of reducing the number of transfer pricing audits and reducing 
competent  authority  dockets  and  other  transfer  pricing  controversy  by 
a  substantial  margin  if  reasonable  ranges  of  results  could  be  agreed 
bilaterally and published.

These types of cases could potentially be addressed through bilateral 
MOUs adopted and publicised by competent authorities. Some jurisdictions 
have adopted such arrangements on a bilateral basis. The general view of 
such  jurisdictions  is  that  treaty  provisions  based  on  Article  25(3)  of  the 
OECD  Model  Tax  Convention  provide  sufficient  authority  to  support  a 
bilateral competent authority agreement on a safe harbour rule that would 
apply  to  numerous  similarly  situated  taxpayers.  Article  25(3)  provides: 
“The  competent  authorities  of  the  Contracting  States  shall  endeavour  to 
resolve  by  mutual  agreement  any  difficulties  or  doubts  arising  as  to  the 
interpretation  or  application  of  the  Convention.  They  may  also  consult 
together  for  the  elimination  of  double  taxation  in  cases  not  provided 
for  in  the  Convention.”  A  competent  authority  agreement  on  a  bilateral 
transfer  pricing  safe  harbour  should  properly  be  characterised  as  a 
“mutual agreement” that “resolves difficulties or doubts arising as to the 
interpretation or application” of Article 9 of the Treaty.

Although nothing would prevent the jurisdictions’ competent authorities 
from adopting safe harbour provisions under Article 25(3) on a multilateral 
basis if the conditions and circumstances so allow, the particular types of 
transactions described above are such that jurisdictions will often adopt a 
bilateral approach.

If such MOUs existed, qualifying taxpayers would be able to manage 
their financial results to fall within the agreed safe harbour range, secure in 
the understanding that those results would be accepted in both jurisdictions 
agreeing  to  the  MOU  concerned.  A  commonly  cited  precedent  for  this 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER IV: SAMPLE MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING FOR SAFE HARBOURS – 495

type of approach is the agreement between the United States and Mexico 
regarding safe harbour profit ranges for maquiladora operations.

A bilateral approach to the development of safe harbours would have a 

number of advantages over unilateral transfer pricing safe harbours:

•  A bilateral approach exe