 expertise  and  insight  into  the  business 
environment in which the intangible is developed or exploited. The problem for 
the tax administration is that the valuation is extremely difficult to objectively 
evaluate  since  such  evaluation  may  be  wholly  based  on  the  information 
provided by the taxpayer. Such information asymmetry restricts the ability of 
tax administrations to establish or verify, at an early stage, the developments 
or  events  that  might  be  considered  relevant  for  the  pricing  of  a  transaction 
involving  the  transfer  of  intangibles  or  rights  in  intangibles,  as  well  as  the 
extent to which the occurrence of such developments or events, or the direction 
they take, might have been foreseen or reasonably foreseeable at the time the 
transaction was entered into.

The HTVI guidance aims at providing a tool for tax administrations 
6. 
to  address  this  problem.  In  the  case  of  intangibles  which  fall  within  the 
definition of HTVI found in paragraph 6.189, and under certain conditions, 
tax administrations are entitled to consider ex post outcomes as presumptive 
evidence  about  the  appropriateness  of  the  ex  ante  pricing  arrangements. 
Where, the actual income or cash flows are significantly higher or lower than 
the anticipated income or cash flows on which the pricing was based, then 
there is presumptive evidence (from the perspective of the tax administration) 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER VI: HARD-TO-VALUE INTANGIBLES – 635

that the projected income or cash flows used in the original valuation should 
have  been  higher  or  lower,  and  that  the  probability-weighting  of  such  an 
outcome requires scrutiny, taking into account what was known and could 
have been anticipated at the time of entering into the transaction involving 
the HTVI. However, it would be incorrect to base the revised valuation on the 
actual income or cash flows without also taking into account the probability, 
at the time of the transaction, of the income or cash flows being achieved.

7. 
This  evaluation  of  the  ex  ante  pricing  arrangements  based  on  the 
ex  post  outcomes  will  necessarily  consider  the  guidance  contained  in 
Chapters  I-III  and,  in  particular,  the  guidance  in  Chapters  VI  and  VIII  of 
these Guidelines.

8. 
In  performing  such  evaluation,  tax  administrations  may  consider 
not  only  the  ex  post  outcomes  taken  as  presumptive  evidence  (within 
the  limits  of  Section  D.4  of  Chapter  VI  of  these  Guidelines)  about  the 
appropriateness of the ex ante pricing arrangement, but also any other relevant 
information  related  to  the  HTVI  transaction  that  becomes  available  to  the 
tax  administrations  and  that  could  or  should  reasonably  have  been  known 
and considered by the associated enterprises at the time the transaction was 
entered into (see Section B.5 of Chapter III).

9. 
Importantly even if the HTVI approach is not applicable to a particular 
transaction, an adjustment may still be appropriate under other parts of these 
Guidelines, including other sections of Chapter VI.

10. 
Any application of the HTVI approach should be done in a manner that 
promotes tax certainty for taxpayers, and reduces the risk of double taxation 
resulting from a primary adjustment, considering the jurisdiction’s domestic 
law (for example, the applicable statute of limitations) and treaty framework. 
Tax administrations should identify and act upon HTVI transactions as early 
as possible.

11. 
The  nature  of  the  approach  to  HTVI  inevitably  requires  some 
consideration  of  timing  issues.  In  some  cases,  the  elapsed  time  between  the 
transfer of the HTVI and the emergence of ex post outcomes may not correspond 
with  audit  cycles  or  with  administrative  and  statutory  time  periods.  This 
problem  may  be  more  acute  where  an  adjustment  is  appropriate  under  the 
HTVI approach in transactions involving intangibles qualifying as HTVI under 
paragraph 6.189 that have a long incubation period – that is, the period after the 
transfer and before the intangible can be exploited commercially and income 
can be derived (see paragraph 6.190).

12. 
The  impact  of  timing  issues  should  not  be  overstated  since  there 
is  already  a  time  lag  in  typical  audit  cycles.  For  example,  assume  an  audit 
of years 1-3 is carried out in year 5; during the course of the audit, the tax 
administration may identify not only a transfer of a hard-to-value intangible in 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

636 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER VI: HARD-TO-VALUE INTANGIBLES

year 1 but also ex post outcomes of that transfer that may be evaluated during 
the audit process. Tax administrations are encouraged to identify transfers of 
potential HTVI, to evaluate the assumptions made by the taxpayer in valuing 
the intangible, and to seek informa