yer has provided the 
required information and documentation consistent with such guidance.
•  Element 2.6 of the Action 14 minimum standard states that jurisdictions 
should  clarify  in  their  mutual  agreement  procedure  programme 
guidance that audit settlements between tax authorities and taxpayers 
do not preclude access to the mutual agreement procedure.

•  Certain  of  the  non-binding  Action  14  best  practices  additionally 
recommend that jurisdictions’ mutual agreement procedure programme 
guidance  should  include:  an  explanation  of  the  relationship  between 
the mutual agreement procedure and domestic law administrative and 
judicial  remedies  (best  practice  8);  guidance  on  the  consideration  of 
interest and penalties in the mutual agreement procedure (best practice 
10);  and  guidance  on  multilateral  mutual  agreement  procedures  and 
advance  pricing  arrangements  (best  practice  11).  Best  practice  9 
recommends that this guidance provide that taxpayers will be allowed 
access  to  the  mutual  agreement  procedure  so  that  the  competent 
authorities  can  resolve  through  consultation  the  double  taxation  that 
can arise in the case of bona fide taxpayer initiated foreign adjustments.
4.64.  There is no need for the competent authorities to agree to rules or 
guidelines governing the procedure, since the rules or guidelines would be 
limited  in  effect  to  the  competent  authority’s  relationship  with  taxpayers 
seeking  its  assistance.  However,  competent  authorities  should  routinely 
communicate such unilateral rules or guidelines to the competent authorities 
of  their  treaty  partners  and  ensure  that  their  country  mutual  agreement 
procedure profiles (see paragraph 4.62 above) are kept up-to-date.

4. 
5. 

See www.oecd.org/tax/beps/beps-about.htm#membership.
See www.oecd.org/tax/beps/country-map-profiles.htm.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

194 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

C.4.6.  Problems concerning collection of tax deficiencies and accrual 

of interest

4.65.  The  process  of  obtaining  relief  from  double  taxation  through  a 
corresponding adjustment can be complicated by issues relating to the collection 
of  tax  deficiencies  and  the  assessment  of  interest  on  those  deficiencies  or 
overpayment. A first problem is that the assessed deficiency may be collected 
before  the  corresponding  adjustment  proceeding  is  completed,  because  of  a 
lack of domestic procedures allowing the collection to be suspended. This may 
cause the MNE group to pay the same tax twice until the issues can be resolved. 
This problem arises not only in the context of the mutual agreement procedure 
but also for internal appeals. The work on Action 14 of the BEPS Action Plan 
recognised  that  the  collection  of  tax  by  both  Contracting  States  pending  the 
resolution  of  a  case  through  the  mutual  agreement  procedure  may  have  a 
significant impact on a taxpayer’s business (for example, as a result of cash flow 
problems). Such collection of tax may also make it more difficult for a competent 
authority to engage in good faith mutual agreement procedure discussions when 
it considers that it may likely have to refund taxes already collected. The Report 
on BEPS Action 14 accordingly includes as best practice 6 a recommendation 
that jurisdictions should take appropriate measures to provide for a suspension of 
collection procedures during the period in which a mutual agreement procedure 
case  is  pending;  such  a  suspension  of  collections  should  be  available,  at  a 
minimum, under the same conditions as apply to a person pursuing a domestic 
administrative  or  judicial  remedy.  In  this  regard,  it  should  be  noted  that  the 
country mutual agreement procedure profiles prepared pursuant to element 2.2 of 
the Action 14 minimum standard (see paragraph 4.62) include information on the 
availability of procedures for the suspension of collections in specific jurisdictions.

4.66.  Whether or not collection of the deficiency is suspended or partially 
suspended, other complications may arise. Because of the lengthy time period 
for  processing  many  transfer  pricing  cases,  the  interest  due  on  a  deficiency 
or, if a corresponding adjustment is allowed, on the overpayment of tax in the 
other jurisdiction can equal or exceed the amount of the tax itself. Jurisdictions 
should take into account in their mutual agreement procedures that inconsistent 
interest rules across the two jurisdictions may result in additional cost for the 
MNE group, or in other cases provide a benefit to the MNE group (e.g. where 
the  interest  paid  in  the  jurisdiction  making  the  corresponding  adjustment 
exceeds  the  interest  imposed  in  the  jurisdictions  making  the  primary 
adjustment) that would not have been available if the controlled transactions 
had been undertaken on an arm’s le