ome-tax (Twelfth Amendment) Rules,
2017, w.r.e.f. 1-4-2017.]] [Clause (a) inserted by the Income-tax (Twelfth Amendment) Rules, 2017,
w.r.e.f. 1-4-2017.]

Sl.
No.

Eligible International
Transaction

Circumstances

(1)

(2)

(3)

1.

Provision of software
development
servicesreferred to in
item (i) of rule 10TC.

The operating profitmargin declared by the eligible assessee from the
eligibleinternational transaction in relation to operating
expenseincurred is -(i) not less than 17per cent, where the value of
international transaction does notexceed a sum of one hundred crore
rupees; or(ii)not less than 18 per cent, where the valueof international
transaction exceeds a sum of one hundred crorerupees but does not

Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/118175259/

2

2.

3.

4.

5.

Provision of
information technology
enabledservices
referred to in item (ii)
of rule 10TC.

Provision of knowledge
process
outsourcingservices
referred to in item (iii)
of rule 10TC.

Advancing of
intra-group loans
referred to initem (iv)
of rule 10TC where the
amount of loan is
denominated inIndian
Rupees (INR).

Advancing of
intra-group loans
referred to initem (iv)
of rule 10TC where the
amount of loan is
denominated inforeign
currency.

Section 10TD in Income Tax Rules, 1962

exceed a sum of two hundred crore rupees.

The operating profitmargin declared by the eligible assessee from the
eligibleinternational transaction in relation to operating expense is
-(i)not less than 17per cent, where the aggregate value of such
transactions enteredinto during the previous year does not exceed a
sum of onehundred crore rupees; or(ii)not less than 18 per cent,
where theaggregate value of such transactions entered into during
theprevious year exceeds a sum of one hundred crore rupees but
doesnot exceed a sum of two hundred crore rupees.

The value ofinternational transaction does not exceed a sum of two
hundredcrore rupees and the operating profit margin declared by
theeligible assessee from the eligible international transaction
inrelation to operating expense is -(i)not less than 24per cent. and the
Employee Cost in relation to the OperatingExpense is at least sixty per
cent.(ii)not less than 21per cent. and the Employee Cost in relation to
the OperatingExpense is forty per cent. or more but less than sixty per
cent.or(iii)not less than 18 per cent and the EmployeeCost in relation
to the Operating Expense does not exceed fortyper cent.

The interest ratedeclared in relation to the eligible international
transaction isnot less than the one-year marginal cost of funds lending
rate ofState Bank of India as on 1st April of the relevant previous
yearplus,-(i) 175 basis points,where the associated enterprise has
CRISIL credit rating betweenAAA to A or its equivalent;(ii) 325
basispoints, where the associated enterprise has CRISIL credit
ratingof BBB-, BBB or BBB+ or its equivalent;(iii) 475 basispoints,
where the associated enterprise has CRISIL credit ratingbetween BB
to B or its equivalent;(iv) 625 basispoints, where the associated
enterprise has CRISIL credit ratingbetween C to D or its equivalent;
or(v) 425 basis points, where credit rating of theassociated enterprise
is not available and the amount of loanadvanced to the associated
enterprise including loans to allassociated enterprises in Indian
Rupees does not exceed a sum ofone hundred crore rupees in the
aggregate as on 31st March of therelevant previous year.

The interest ratedeclared in relation to the eligible international
transaction isnot less than the six-month London Inter-Bank Offer
Rate of therelevant foreign currency as on 30th September of the
relevantprevious year plus, -(i) 150 basis points,where the associated
enterprise has CRISIL credit rating betweenAAA to A or its
equivalent;(ii) 300 basispoints, where the associated enterprise has
CRISIL credit ratingof BBB-, BBB or BBB+ or its equivalent;(iii) 450
basispoints, where the associated enterprise has CRISIL credit
ratingbetween BB to B or its equivalent;(iv) 600 basispoints, where
the associated enterprise has CRISIL credit ratingbetween C to D or

Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/118175259/

3

Section 10TD in Income Tax Rules, 1962

its equivalent; or(v) 400 basis points, where credit rating of
theassociated enterprise is not available and the amount of
loanadvanced to the associated enterprise including loans to
allassociated enterprises does not exceed a sum equivalent to
onehundred crore Indian rupees in the aggregate as on 31st March
ofthe relevant previous year.

The commission or fee declared in relation tothe eligible international
transaction is at the rate not lessthan one per cent per annum on the
amount guaranteed.

The operating profit margin declared by theeligible assessee from the
eligible international transaction inrelation to operating expense
incurred is not less than 24 percent, where the value of the
international transaction does notexceed a sum of two hundred crore
rupees.

Th