length principle. Such compensation is referred to in this chapter as a “buy-
out payment”.

8.47.  The  guidance  in  Chapters  I-III  and  Chapter  VI  is  fully  applicable 
to determining the arm’s length amount of any buy-in, buy-out or balancing 
payments  required.  There  may  be  instances  where  no  such  payments  are 
required under the arm’s length principle. For example, a CCA for the sharing 
of administrative services would generally only produce benefits to participants 
on a current basis, rather than any valuable on-going results.

8.48.  Buy-in and buy-out payments should be treated for tax purposes in 
the same manner as would apply under the general rules of the tax system(s) 
(including  conventions  for  the  avoidance  of  double  taxation)  applicable  to 
the  respective  participants  as  if  the  payment  were  made  outside  a  CCA  as 
consideration for the acquisition or disposal of the interest in the results of 
the prior CCA activity.

8.49.  When a CCA terminates, the arm’s length principle requires that each 
participant retains an interest in the results, if any, of the CCA activity consistent 
with their proportionate share of contributions to the CCA throughout its term 
(adjusted by any balancing payments actually made, including those made as a 
result of the termination), or is appropriately compensated for any transfer of that 
interest to other participants.

E. Recommendations for structuring and documenting CCAs

8.50.  Generally, a CCA between controlled parties should meet the following 
conditions:

a)  The  participants  would  include  only  enterprises  expected  to 
derive mutual and proportionate benefits from the CCA activity 
itself (and not just from performing part or all of that activity). 
See paragraph 8.14.

b)  The  arrangement  would  specify  the  nature  and  extent  of  each 
participant’s interest in the results of the CCA activity, as well its 
expected respective share of benefits.

c)  No  payment  other  than  the  CCA  contributions,  appropriate 
balancing  payments  and  buy-in  payments  would  be  made  for 
the particular interest or rights in intangibles, tangible assets or 
services obtained through the CCA.

d)  The  value  of  participants’  contributions  would  be  determined 
in  accordance  with  these  Guidelines  and,  where  necessary, 
balancing payments should be made to ensure the proportionate 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

354 – CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS

shares  of  contributions  align  with  the  proportionate  shares  of 
expected benefits from the arrangement.

e)  The arrangement may specify provision for balancing payments 
and/or  changes  in  the  allocation  of  contributions  prospectively 
after a reasonable period of time to reflect material changes in 
proportionate shares of expected benefits among the participants.

f)  Adjustments  would  be  made  as  necessary  (including  the 
possibility  of  buy-in  and  buy-out  payments)  upon  the  entrance 
or withdrawal of a participant and upon termination of the CCA.

8.51.  The  transfer  pricing  documentation  standard  set  out  in  Chapter  V 
requires reporting under the master file of important service arrangements 
and  important  agreements  related  to  intangibles,  including  CCAs.  The 
local  file  requires  transactional  information  including  a  description  of  the 
transactions,  the  amounts  of  payments  and  receipts,  identification  of  the 
associated enterprises involved, copies of material intercompany agreements, 
and  pricing  information  including  a  description  of  reasons  for  concluding 
that  the  transactions  were  priced  on  an  arm’s  length  basis.  It  would  be 
expected  that  in  order  to  comply  with  these  documentation  requirements, 
the participants in a CCA will prepare or obtain materials about the nature 
of the subject activity, the terms of the arrangement, and its consistency with 
the  arm’s  length  principle.  Implicit  in  this  is  that  each  participant  should 
have  full  access  to  the  details  of  the  activities  to  be  conducted  under  the 
CCA, the identity and location of the other parties involved in the CCA, the 
projections on which the contributions are to be made and expected benefits 
determined, and budgeted and actual expenditures for the CCA activity, at 
a level of detail commensurate with the complexity and importance of the 
CCA to the taxpayer. All this information could be relevant and useful to tax 
administrations in the context of a CCA and, if not included in the master 
file  or  local  file,  tax payers  should  be  prepared  to  provide  it  upon  request. 
The information relevant to any particular CCA will depend on the facts and 
circumstances. It should be emphasised that the information described in this 
list is neither a minimum compliance standard nor an exhaustive list of the 
information that a tax admi