P APA

51. 
By  its  nature,  an  APA  applies  to  prospective  transactions  and 
so  one  issue  to  be  decided  is  how  long  it  will  last.  There  are  two  sets  of 
conflicting  objectives  that  affect  the  negotiation  of  the  appropriate  term. 
On the one hand, it is desirable to have a sufficiently long period so as to 
grant  a  reasonable  degree  of  certainty  of  treatment.  Otherwise,  it  may  not 
be  worth  making  the  initial  effort  of  resolving  potential  transfer  pricing 
problems in advance, as opposed to tackling problems only when they arise 
through the normal audit or tax return examination procedures. On the other 
hand, a long period makes the predictions as to future conditions on which 
the mutual agreement negotiations are based less accurate, thereby casting 
doubt on the reliability of the MAP APA proposals. The optimal trade-off 
between  these  two  sets  of  objectives  will  depend  on  a  number  of  factors, 
such as the industry, the transactions involved and the economic climate. The 
term should therefore be negotiated between the competent authorities on a 
case-by case basis. Experience to date has shown that a MAP APA might, on 
average, last for 3-5 years.

D. Finalisation of the MAP APA

D.1. Introduction

52. 
The success of the MAP APA process, as an alternative to relying 
solely  on  traditional  audit  or  examination  techniques,  depends  to  a  large 
extent on the commitment of all the participants. The ability of the relevant 
competent  authorities  to  reach  agreement  in  a  prompt  manner  will  be 
determined both by their actions and importantly by the willingness of the 
taxpayer(s) to provide all the necessary information as promptly as possible. 
The  usefulness  of  the  process,  both  for  taxpayers  and  tax  authorities,  will 
be significantly diminished if the MAP APA is not agreed until the period 
proposed  to  be  covered  in  the  taxpayer’s  request  has  nearly  expired.  Such 
delay  may  also  make  it  more  difficult  to  avoid  the  use  of  hindsight  when 
evaluating the proposal because the results of applying the methodology will 
be known for most of the period proposed by the MAP APA. Understandably, 
given the relatively early stage in the evolution of the MAP APA process, the 
goal of prompt prospective resolution has not always been met in the past. To 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

532 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS

some extent, of course, some delay in the process is inevitable; MAP APAs 
tend to deal with large taxpayers, complex fact patterns, and difficult legal 
and  economic  issues,  all  of  which  require  time  and  resources  in  order  to 
understand and evaluate.

53. 
Tax authorities are encouraged, where possible, to devote sufficient 
resources and skilled personnel to the process to ensure that cases are settled 
promptly  and  efficiently.  Some  tax  authorities  may  wish  to  improve  the 
efficiency of their MAP APA programmes by setting informal goals for the 
length of time taken to complete the process and by publishing the average 
completion  time.  Particular  treaty  partners  may  also  agree  to  set  informal 
goals for completion of their bilateral negotiations. Given the often complex 
and difficult fact patterns, the possible need for translations and the relative 
novelty of such arrangements, it is not felt desirable to set more specific or 
binding targets for concluding MAP APAs at this stage. However, it will be 
appropriate  to  set  more  specific  targets  for  completion  time  in  the  future, 
once more experience with the MAP APA process has been gained.

54. 
Once a taxpayer’s proposal has been received by the tax administrations, 
they should mutually agree on the co-ordination of the review, evaluation and 
negotiation of the MAP APA. The MAP APA process can conveniently be 
broken up into two main stages; a) fact finding, review and evaluation and 
b) the competent authority discussions, each of which is discussed in greater 
detail below.

D.2. Fact finding, review and evaluation

D.2.1. General

In reviewing the MAP APA proposal, the tax administrations may 
55. 
undertake  whatever  steps  they  deem  appropriate  in  the  circumstances  to 
conduct the mutual agreement procedure. These include, but are not limited 
to: requests for further information deemed relevant to review and evaluate 
the taxpayer’s proposal, the carrying out of fieldwork (e.g. visits to taxpayer’s 
premises, interviews with staff, review of financial or managerial operations, 
etc.)  and  the  engaging  of  necessary  experts.  Tax  administrations  may 
also  have  recourse  to  information  collected  from  other  sources,  including 
information and data on comparable taxpayers.

56. 
The aim of this stage of the MAP APA process is for the participating 
competent authorities to have all relevant information, data, and analyse