 find 
another agent that has the advantage of point of sale contact with the customer. 
The ability to achieve the very high level of profit on the sale of the insurance 
policies  arises  from  the  advantage  of  customer  contact  at  the  point  of  sale. 
The arm’s length remuneration for B would be in line with the benchmarked 
return for insurers insuring similar risks and the balance of the profit should 
be allocated to A.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

LIST OF ANNEXES – 453

List of annexes

•  Annex  to  the  OECD  Transfer  Pricing  Guidelines:  Guidelines  for 
monitoring procedures on the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines and 
the involvement of the business community

•  Annex I to Chapter II: Sensitivity of gross and net profit indicators.

•  Annex II to Chapter II: Examples to illustrate the guidance on the 

transactional profit split method.

•  Annex to Chapter III: Example of a working capital adjustment.

•  Annex  I  to  Chapter  IV:  Sample  memoranda  of  understanding  for 

competent authorities to establish bilateral safe harbours

•  Annex II to Chapter IV: Guidelines for conducting Advance Pricing 
Arrangements under the Mutual Agreement Procedure (MAP APAs).

•  Annex I to Chapter V: Transfer pricing documentation – Master file

•  Annex II to Chapter V: Transfer pricing documentation – Local file

•  Annex III to Chapter V: Transfer pricing documentation – Country-

by-Country Report

•  Annex 

IV 

to  Chapter  V:  Country-by-Country  Reporting 

Implementation Package.

•  Annex  I  to  Chapter  VI:  Examples  to  illustrate  the  guidance  on 

intangibles.

•  Annex  II  to  Chapter  VI:  Guidance  for  tax  administrations  on  the 

application of the approach to hard-to-value intangibles.

•  Annex to Chapter VIII: Examples to illustrate the guidance on cost 

contribution arrangements.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX: MONITORING PROCEDURES – 455

Annex to the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines 

Guidelines for monitoring procedures on the OECD 
Transfer Pricing Guidelines and the involvement of 
the business community

A. Background

1. 
In July 1995, the OECD Council approved for publication the Transfer 
Pricing  Guidelines  for  Multinational  Enterprises  and  Tax  Administrations 
(“the  Guidelines”),  submitted  by  the  Committee  on  Fiscal  Affairs  (“the 
Committee”). At the same time, the OECD Council endorsed the Committee’s 
recommendation that the Guidelines be reviewed and up-dated periodically as 
appropriate based upon the experience of member countries and the business 
community  with  the  application  of  the  principles  and  methods  set  forth  in 
the Guidelines. For this purpose, and to facilitate on-going clarifications and 
improvements, the OECD Council instructed the Committee to undertake a 
period of monitoring international transfer pricing experience. The monitoring 
role is seen as an integrated part of the agreement reached in July 1995 and its 
successful implementation is a key feature to getting a consistent application 
of the Guidelines. The Council Recommendation “instructs the Committee on 
Fiscal Affairs to monitor the implementation of the 1995 Report in co- operation 
with the tax authorities of member countries and with the participation of the 
business community and to recommend to the Council to amend and update, if 
necessary, the 1995 Report in the light of this monitoring”.

2. 
To summarise, the main purpose of the monitoring is to examine how 
far  member  countries’  legislation,  regulations  and  administrative  practices 
are consistent with the Guidelines and to identify areas where the Guidelines 
may require amendments or additions. The monitoring should not only lead to 
identification of problematic issues, but also to the identification of practices 
followed by one or more member countries in applying the Guidelines which 
could be usefully extended to other countries. The monitoring is not intended 
to arbitrate on particular cases.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
456 – ANNEX: MONITORING PROCEDURES

3. 
The monitoring is expected to be an on-going process and to cover all 
aspects of the Guidelines but with particular emphasis on the use of transactional 
profit  methods.  The  purpose  of  this  note  is  to  set  forth  some  procedures  for 
carrying out the monitoring, thereby implementing the instruction of the OECD 
Council.  These  procedures  will  be  implemented  gradually.  Further  revisions 
may be necessary once the procedures have been put into practice.

In  line  with  the  Council’s  Recommendation,  there  will  be  a  role 
4. 
for  the  business  community  in  the  monitoring  and  this  role  is  set  out  in 
Section C.

B. Process

5. 
The  monitoring  process  will  be  carried  out  through  four  related 
projects: 1. peer reviews of member country practices; 2. identification and 
analysis  of  difficult  case  para