economic and statistical analysis.  

This guidance clarifies that, consistent with Revenue, Profit (Loss) before Income Tax excludes payments 
received from other Constituent Entities that are treated as dividends in the payer’s tax jurisdiction. 

The BEPS Action 13 Report also does not provide specific guidance on how to interpret the expression 
“payments  received  from  other  Constituent  Entities  that  are  treated  as  dividends  in  the  payer’s  tax 
jurisdiction” and, in the absence of such guidance, different approaches have been adopted by jurisdictions 
and by MNEs.  

This  guidance  clarifies  that  the  expression  “payments  received  from  other  Constituent  Entities  that  are 
treated as dividends in the payer’s tax jurisdiction” refers to payments that are treated as dividends in the 
source of data used for the completion of Table 1 with respect to the tax jurisdiction of the payer.  In a CbC 
report, payments between Constituent Entities should be treated consistently in the tax jurisdictions of the 
payer and the recipient. In practice this means that: 

•  a payment is excluded from Revenue and Profit (Loss) before Income Tax in the recipient’s tax 
jurisdiction if the source of data used to complete Table 1 of the country-by-country report for the 
payer’s tax jurisdiction treats such payment as a dividend; and,  

•  a  payment  is  included  in  Revenue  and  Profit  (Loss)  before  Income  Tax  in  the  recipient’s  tax 
jurisdiction if the source of data used to complete Table 1 of the country-by-country report for the 
payer’s  tax  jurisdiction  treats  such  payment  as  something  other  than  a  dividend,  for  instance, 
interest expense. 

Inclusive  Framework  members  are  encouraged  to  apply  this  guidance  as  soon  as  possible,  taking  into 
account  specific  domestic  circumstances  and,  in  any  event,  this  guidance  applies  to  all  reporting  fiscal 
years of MNE groups commencing on or after 1 January 2025.   

Where applicable accounting rules require or permit a Constituent Entity to include in profit before tax for 
financial reporting purposes an amount representing all or part of the profit of another Constituent Entity, 
this amount should be treated in the same way as dividends from other Constituent Entities and excluded 
from Revenue and Profit (Loss) before Income Tax.5 

7.2 Should income tax accrued/income tax paid on such dividends be reflected in the 
columns “Income Tax Paid (on cash basis)” and/or “Income Tax Accrued (current 
year)”?  

Where dividends from other Constituent Entities are included in "Profit (loss) before Income Tax" in Table 
1,  any  income  tax  accrued  or  income  tax  paid  on  these  dividends  should  be  reported  in  the  relevant 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
column(s).  For  consistency,  these  columns  should  not  include  information  on  income  tax  accrued  or 
income tax paid with respect to dividends from Constituent Entities that are not included in "Profit (loss) 
before Income Tax". 

  | 13 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
14 |   

The use of shortened or rounded amounts in preparing Table 1 (September 2018, 
November 2019) 

8.1 In completing Table 1, is it acceptable for shortened amounts to be used? As an 
example, where amounts are shortened to the nearest thousand, an amount of 123 456 
789 would be reported as 123 457.  

The  Action  13  report  and  published  guidance  do  not  provide  for  any  shortening  of  the  amounts  to  be 
included  in  Table  1.  Amounts  in  Table  1  should  be  reported  in  full  whole  units  (i.e.  an  amount  of 
123 456 789 should be reported as 123 456 789 and should not be shortened, for example, to 123 457). 

8.2 Is it permitted for an MNE to report rounded amounts in Table 1 of its CbC report?  

The BEPS Action 13 report does not provide any guidance concerning the rounding of amounts in Table 
1, other than with respect to the number of employees (where reasonable rounding or approximation is 
permissible,  providing  this  does  not  materially  distort  the  relative  distribution  of  employees  across  tax 
jurisdictions). As such, the jurisdiction where the UPE of an MNE Group is resident is not required to accept 
any rounding of financial amounts in the preparation of Table 1. Such a jurisdiction may however accept a 
reasonable level of rounding and, where this is accepted by the residence jurisdiction of the UPE, a CbC 
report prepared on this basis will be considered to be in accordance with the minimum standard.  

Each  jurisdiction  may  determine  the  level  of  rounding  that  is  reasonable,  taking  into  account  factors 
including the relative nominal value of its currency unit. However, reasonable rounding cannot include any 
rounding that could materially distort the data contained 