  as 
to  their  valuation.  Identification  can  be  difficult  because  not  all  valuable 
intangibles are legally protected and registered and not all valuable intangibles 
are  recognised  or  recorded  for  accounting  purposes.  Relevant  intangibles 
might  potentially  include  rights  to  use  industrial  assets  such  as  patents, 
trademarks, trade names, designs or models, as well as copyrights of literary, 
artistic  or  scientific  work  (including  software)  and  intellectual  property 
such as know-how and trade secrets. They may also include customer lists, 
distribution channels, unique names, symbols or pictures. An essential part 
of the analysis of a business restructuring is to identify with specificity the 
relevant  intangibles  or  rights  in  intangibles  that  were  transferred  (if  any), 
whether independent parties would have remunerated their transfer, and what 
their arm’s length value is.

9.56.  The  determination  of  the  arm’s  length  price  for  a  transfer  of 
intangibles or rights in intangibles should be conducted in accordance with 
the guidance in Section D.1 of Chapter VI. It will be affected by a number of 
factors among which are the amount, duration and riskiness of the expected 
benefits from the exploitation of the intangible, the nature of the intangible 
right and the restrictions that may be attached to it (restrictions in the way it 
can be used or exploited, geographical restrictions, time limitations), the extent 
and  remaining  duration  of  its  legal  protection  (if  any),  and  any  exclusivity 
clause that might be attached to the right. See Section D.2.1 of Chapter VI. 
Valuation of intangibles can be complex and uncertain. The general guidance 
on  intangibles  and  on  cost  contribution  arrangements  that  is  found  in 
Chapters VI and VIII is applicable in the context of business restructurings.

E.2.1.  Disposal of intangibles or rights in intangibles by a local 

operation to a central location (foreign associated enterprise)

9.57.  Business  restructurings  sometimes  involve  the  transfer  of  the  legal 
ownership of intangibles or rights in intangibles that were previously owned 
by one or more local operation(s) to a central location situated in another tax 
jurisdiction (e.g. a foreign associated enterprise  that operates as a principal 
or  as  a  so-called  “IP  company”).  In  some  cases  the  transferor  continues  to 
use the intangible transferred, but does so in another legal capacity (e.g. as a 
licensee of the transferee, or through a contract that includes limited rights to 
the intangible such as a contract manufacturing arrangement using patents that 
were transferred; or a limited risk distribution arrangement using a trademark 
that  was  transferred).  In  accordance  with  the  guidance  in  Chapter  VI,  it  is 
important to remember that the legal ownership of an intangible by itself does 
not confer any right ultimately to retain returns derived by the MNE group 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

378 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

from exploiting that intangible (see 6.42). Instead, the compensation required 
to be paid to associated enterprises performing or controlling functions related 
to  the  development,  enhancement,  maintenance,  protection,  or  exploitation 
of  intangibles  may  comprise  any  share  of  the  total  return  anticipated  to 
be  derived  from  the  intangibles  (see  6.54).  Therefore,  the  change  in  legal 
ownership of an intangible in a business restructuring may not affect which 
party is entitled to returns from that intangible.

9.58.  MNE groups may have sound business reasons to centralise ownership 
of intangibles or rights in intangibles. An example in the context of business 
restructuring is a transfer of legal ownership of intangibles that accompanies 
the  specialisation  of  manufacturing  sites  within  an  MNE  group.  In  a  pre-
restructuring  environment,  each  manufacturing  entity  may  be  the  owner 
and  manager  of  a  series  of  patents  –  for  instance  if  the  manufacturing  sites 
were  historically  acquired  from  third  parties  with  their  intangibles.  In  a 
global  business  model,  each  manufacturing  site  can  be  specialised  by  type 
of  manufacturing  process  or  by  geographical  area  rather  than  by  patent.  As 
a  consequence  of  such  a  restructuring  the  MNE  group  might  proceed  with 
the transfer of all the locally owned patents to a central location which will in 
turn give contractual rights (through licences or manufacturing agreements) 
to all the group’s manufacturing sites to manufacture the products falling in 
their new areas of competence, using patents that were initially owned either 
by the same or by another entity within the group. In such a scenario it will be 
important  to  delineate  the  actual  transaction  and  to  understand  whether  the 
transfer of legal ownership 