ot be identified, the arm’s length principle requires use of 
another method to determine the price that uncontrolled parties would have 
agreed under comparable circumstances. In making such determinations, it 
is important to consider:

•  The  functions,  assets  and  risks  of  the  respective  parties  to  the 

transaction.

•  The business reasons for engaging in the transaction.

•  The perspectives of and options realistically available to each of the 

parties to the transaction.

•  The competitive advantages conferred by the intangibles including 
especially  the  relative  profitability  of  products  and  services  or 
potential products and services related to the intangibles.

•  The expected future economic benefits from the transaction.

•  Other comparability factors such as features of local markets, location 

savings, assembled workforce, and MNE group synergies.

6.140.  In  identifying  prices  and  other  conditions  that  would  have  been 
agreed between independent enterprises under comparable circumstances, it 
is often essential to carefully identify idiosyncratic aspects of the controlled 
transaction that arise by virtue of the relationship between the parties. There 
is  no  requirement  that  associated  enterprises  structure  their  transactions 
in precisely the same manner as independent enterprises might have done. 
However, where transactional structures are utilised by associated enterprises 
that are not typical of transactions between independent parties, the effect of 
those structures on prices and other conditions that would have been agreed 
between  uncontrolled  parties  under  comparable  circumstances  should  be 
taken into account in evaluating the profits that would have accrued to each 
of the parties at arm’s length.

6.141.  Care  should  be  used,  in  applying  certain  of  the  OECD  transfer 
pricing methods in a matter involving the transfer of intangibles or rights in 
intangibles.  One  sided  methods,  including  the  resale  price  method  and  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

290 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

TNMM, are generally not reliable methods for directly valuing intangibles. 
In some circumstances such mechanisms can be utilised to indirectly value 
intangibles  by  determining  values  for  some  functions  using  those  methods 
and  deriving  a  residual  value  for  intangibles.  However,  the  principles  of 
paragraph  6.133  are  important  when  following  such  approaches  and  care 
should be exercised to ensure that all functions, risks, assets and other factors 
contributing to the generation of income are properly identified and evaluated.

6.142.  The use of transfer pricing methods that seek to estimate the value 
of  intangibles  based  on  the  cost  of  intangible  development  is  generally 
discouraged. There rarely is any correlation between the cost of developing 
intangibles and their value or transfer price once developed. Hence, transfer 
pricing methods based on the cost of intangible development should usually 
be avoided.

6.143.  However,  in  some  limited  circumstances,  transfer  pricing  methods 
based on the estimated cost of reproducing or replacing the intangible may 
be  utilised.  Such  approaches  may  sometimes  have  valid  application  with 
regard to the development of intangibles used for internal business operations 
(e.g.  internal  software  systems),  particularly  where  the  intangibles  in 
question are not unique and valuable intangibles. Where intangibles relating 
to products sold in the marketplace are at issue, however, replacement cost 
valuation methods raise serious comparability issues. Among other concerns, 
it is necessary to evaluate the effect of time delays associated with deferred 
development on the value of the intangibles. Often, there may be a significant 
first mover advantage in having a product on the market at an early date. As 
a result, an identical product (and the supporting intangibles) developed in 
future periods will not be as valuable as the same product (and the supporting 
intangibles) available currently. In such a case, the estimated replacement cost 
will not be a valid proxy for the value of an intangible transferred currently. 
Similarly,  where  an  intangible  carries  legal  protections  or  exclusivity 
characteristics,  the  value  of  being  able  to  exclude  competitors  from  using 
the intangible will not be reflected in an analysis based on replacement cost. 
Cost based valuations generally are not reliable when applied to determine 
the arm’s length price for partially developed intangibles.

6.144.  The  provisions  of  paragraph  2.10  related  to  the  use  of  rules  of 
thumb apply to determinations of a correct transfer price in any controlled 
transaction,  including  cases  involving  the  use  or  transfer  of  intangibles. 
Accordingly,  a  rule  of  thumb  cannot  be  used  to  evidence  that  a  price 
o