the intangibles themselves are comparable.

•  Risks related to the future development of the intangibles. This includes 
an evaluation of whether the intangibles relate to commercially viable 
products,  whether  the  intangibles  may  support  commercially  viable 
products in the future, the expected cost of required future development 
and  testing,  the  likelihood  that  such  development  and  testing  will 
prove  successful  and  similar  considerations.  The  consideration  of 
development  risk  is  particularly  important  in  situations  involving 
transfers of partially developed intangibles.

•  Risks related to product obsolescence and depreciation in the value 
of the intangibles. This includes an evaluation of the likelihood that 
competitors  will  introduce  products  or  services  in  the  future  that 
would  materially  erode  the  market  for  products  dependent  on  the 
intangibles being analysed.

•  Risks related to infringement of the intangible rights. This includes 
an evaluation of the likelihood that others might successfully claim 
that products based on the intangibles infringe their own intangible 
rights and an evaluation of the likely costs of defending against such 
claims. It also includes an evaluation of the likelihood that the holder 
of intangible rights could successfully prevent others from infringing 
the  intangibles,  the  risk  that  counterfeit  products  could  erode  the 
profitability of relevant markets, and the likelihood that substantial 
damages could be collected in the event of infringement.

•  Product  liability  and  similar  risks  related  to  the  future  use  of  the 

intangibles.

D.2.3.  Comparability adjustments with regard to transfers of intangibles 

or rights in intangibles

6.129.  The  principles  of  paragraphs  3.47  to  3.54  relating  to  comparability 
adjustments  apply  with  respect  to  transactions  involving  the  transfer  of 
intangibles  or  rights  in  intangibles.  It  is  important  to  note  that  differences 
between  intangibles  can  have  significant  economic  consequences  that  may 
be difficult to adjust for in a reliable manner. Particularly in situations where 
amounts attributable to comparability adjustments represent a large percentage 
of  the  compensation  for  the  intangible,  there  may  be  reason  to  believe, 
depending on the specific facts, that the computation of the adjustment is not 
reliable  and  that  the  intangibles  being  compared  are  in  fact  not  sufficiently 
comparable to support a valid transfer pricing analysis. If reliable comparability 
adjustments are not possible, it may be necessary to select a transfer pricing 
method that is less dependent on the identification of comparable intangibles 
or comparable transactions.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 287

D.2.4. Use of comparables drawn from databases

6.130.  Comparability, and the possibility of making comparability adjustments, 
is  especially  important  in  considering  potentially  comparable  intangibles 
and  related  royalty  rates  drawn  from  commercial  databases  or  proprietary 
compilations  of  publicly  available  licence  or  similar  agreements.  The 
principles  of  Section  A.4.3.1  of  Chapter  III  apply  fully  in  assessing  the 
usefulness  of  transactions  drawn  from  such  sources.  In  particular,  it  is 
important to assess whether publicly available data drawn from commercial 
databases  and  proprietary  compilations  is  sufficiently  detailed  to  permit 
an evaluation of the specific features of intangibles that may be important 
in  conducting  a  comparability  analysis.  In  evaluating  comparable  licence 
arrangements  identified  from  databases,  the  specific  facts  of  the  case, 
including the methodology being applied, should be considered in the context 
of the provisions of paragraph 3.38.

D.2.5.  Selecting the most appropriate transfer pricing method in a matter 
involving the transfer of intangibles or rights in intangibles

6.131.  The  principles  of  these  Guidelines  related  to  the  selection  of  the 
most  appropriate  transfer  pricing  method  to  the  circumstances  of  the  case 
are described in paragraphs 2.1 to 2.12. Those principles apply fully to cases 
involving  the  transfer  of  intangibles  or  rights  in  intangibles.  In  selecting 
the most appropriate transfer pricing method in a case involving a transfer 
of  intangibles  or  rights  in  intangibles,  attention  should  be  given  to  (i)  the 
nature of the relevant intangibles, (ii) the difficulty of identifying comparable 
uncontrolled  transactions  and  intangibles  in  many,  if  not  most,  cases, 
and  (iii)  the  difficulty  of  applying  certain  of  the  transfer  pricing  methods 
described  in  Chapter  II  in  cases  involving  the  transfer  of  intangibles.  The 
issues discussed below are particularly important in the selection