Agreement  is  fulfilled. 
In  particular,  a  Competent  Authority  shall  consult  with  the  other  Competent  Authority, 
before the first-mentioned Competent Authority determines that there is a systemic failure 
to exchange CbC Reports with the other Competent Authority. where the first mentioned 
Competent Authority makes such a determination it shall notify the Co-ordinating Body 
Secretariat  which,  after  having  informed  the  other  Competent  Authority  concerned, 
will  notify  all  Competent  Authorities.  To  the  extent  permitted  by  applicable  law,  either 
Competent Authority may, and if it so wishes through the Co-ordinating Body Secretariat, 
involve  other  Competent  Authorities  that  have  this  Agreement  in  effect  with  a  view  to 
finding an acceptable resolution to the issue.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

50 – ANNEx Iv TO ChAPTER v. COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

The Competent Authority that requested the consultations pursuant to paragraph 2 
3. 
shall  ensure,  as  appropriate,  that  the  Co-ordinating  Body  Secretariat  is  notified  of  any 
conclusions that were reached and measures that were developed, including the absence 
of such conclusions or measures, and the Co-ordinating Body Secretariat will notify all 
Competent Authorities, even those that did not participate in the consultations, of any such 
conclusions or measures. Taxpayer-specific information, including information that would 
reveal the identity of the taxpayer involved, is not to be furnished.

SECTION 7
Amendments

This  Agreement  may  be  amended  by  consensus  by  written  agreement  of  all  of  the 
Competent Authorities that have the Agreement in effect. Unless otherwise agreed upon, 
such an amendment is effective on the first day of the month following the expiration of a 
period of one month after the date of the last signature of such written agreement.

SECTION 8
Term of Agreement

1.  A Competent Authority must provide, at the time of signature of this Agreement or as 
soon as possible thereafter, a notification to the Co-ordinating Body Secretariat:

a) 

that its Jurisdiction has the necessary laws in place to require Reporting Entities to 
file a CbC Report and that its Jurisdiction will require the filing of CbC Reports 
with respect to fiscal years of Reporting Entities commencing on or after the date 
set out in the notification;

b)  specifying whether the Jurisdiction is to be included in the list of non-reciprocal 

Jurisdictions;

c)  specifying  one  or  more  methods  for  electronic  data  transmission  including 

encryption;

d)  that  it  has  in  place  the  necessary  legal  framework  and  infrastructure  to  ensure 
the  required  confidentiality  and  data  safeguards  standards  in  accordance  with 
Article 22 of the Convention and paragraph 1 and Section 5 of this Agreement, 
as well as the appropriate use of the information in the CbC Reports as described 
in  paragraph  2  of  Section  5  of  this  Agreement,  and  attaching  the  completed 
confidentiality  and  data  safeguard  questionnaire  attached  as  Annex  to  this 
Agreement; and

e) 

that includes (i) a list of the Jurisdictions of the Competent Authorities with respect 
to which it intends to have this Agreement in effect, following national legislative 
procedures  for  entry  into  force  (if  any)  or  (ii)  a  declaration  by  the  Competent 
Authority that it intends to have this Agreement in effect with all other Competent 
Authorities that provide a notification under paragraph 1e) of Section 8.

Competent  Authorities  must  notify  the  Co-ordinating  Body  Secretariat,  promptly, 
of  any  subsequent  change  to  be  made  to  any  of  the  above-mentioned  content  of  the 
notification.

2. 
This  Agreement  will  come  into  effect  between  two  Competent  Authorities  on 
the  later  of  the  following  dates:  (i)  the  date  on  which  the  second  of  the  two  Competent 
Authorities  has  provided  notification  to  the  Co-ordinating  Body  Secretariat  under 

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

ANNEx Iv TO ChAPTER v. COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 51

paragraph  1  that  includes  the  other  Competent  Authority’s  Jurisdiction  pursuant  to 
subparagraph 1e) and (ii) the date on which the Convention has entered into force and is in 
effect for both Jurisdictions.

The Co-ordinating Body Secretariat will maintain a list that will be published on the 
3. 
OECD website of the Competent Authorities that have signed the Agreement and between 
which Competent Authorities this is an Agreement in effect. In addition, the Co-ordinating 
Body Secretariat will publish the information provided by Competent Authorities pursuant 
to subparagraphs 1a) and b) on the OECD website.

4. 
The  information  provided  pursuant  to  subparagraphs  1c)  through