ons,  Company  S’s  return  is  arm’s 
length  and  its  marketing  activities,  including  its  marketing  expenses,  are 
not  significantly  different  than  those  performed  by  independent  marketers 
and  distributors  in  comparable  uncontrolled  transactions.  The  information 
on comparable uncontrolled arrangements provides the best measure of the 
arm’s length return earned by Company S for the contribution to intangible 
value provided by its functions, risks, and costs. That return therefore reflects 
arm’s  length  compensation  for  Company  S’s  contributions  and  accurately 
measures its share of the income derived from exploitation of the trademark 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

610 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES

and  trade  name  in  Country  y.  No  separate  or  additional  compensation  is 
required to be provided to Company S.

Example 10

The  facts  in  this  example  are  the  same  as  in  Example  9,  except 
30. 
that  the  market  development  functions  undertaken  by  Company  S  in  this 
Example 10 are far more extensive than those undertaken by Company S in 
Example 9.

31.  Where the marketer/distributor actually bears the costs and assumes 
the  risks  of  its  marketing  activities,  the  issue  is  the  extent  to  which  the 
marketer/distributor can share in the potential benefits from those activities. 
A thorough comparability analysis identifies several uncontrolled companies 
engaged  in  marketing  and  distribution  functions  under  similar  long-term 
marketing and distribution arrangements. Assume, however, that the level of 
marketing expense Company S incurred in years 1 through 5 far exceeds that 
incurred by the identified comparable independent marketers and distributors. 
Assume further that the high level of expense incurred by Company S reflects 
its performance of additional or more intensive functions than those performed 
by the potential comparables and that Primair and Company S expect those 
additional functions to generate higher margins or increased sales volume for 
the products. Given the extent of the market development activities undertaken 
by  Company  S,  it  is  evident  that  Company  S  has  made  a  larger  functional 
contribution to development of the market and the marketing intangibles and 
has  assumed  significantly  greater  costs  and  assumed  greater  risks  than  the 
identified potentially comparable independent enterprises (and substantially 
higher costs and risks than in Example 9). There is also evidence to support 
the conclusion that the profits realised by Company S are significantly lower 
than the profit margins of the identified potentially comparable independent 
marketers and distributors during the corresponding years of similar long-term 
marketing and distribution agreements.

As in Example 9, Company S bears the costs and associated risks of 
32. 
its  marketing  activities  under  a  long-term  contract  of  exclusive  marketing 
and distribution rights for the R watches, and therefore expects to have an 
opportunity to benefit (or suffer a loss) from the marketing and distribution 
activities  it  undertakes.  However,  in  this  case  Company  S  has  performed 
functions  and  borne  marketing  expenditures  beyond  what  independent 
enterprises in potentially comparable transactions with similar rights incur 
for  their  own  benefit,  resulting  in  significantly  lower  profit  margins  for 
Company S than are made by such enterprises.

33. 
Based on these facts, it is evident that by performing functions and 
incurring  marketing  expenditure  substantially  in  excess  of  the  levels  of 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 611

function and expenditure of independent marketer/distributors in comparable 
transactions, Company S has not been adequately compensated by the margins 
it  earns  on  the  resale  of  R  watches.  Under  such  circumstances  it  would  be 
appropriate for the Country y tax administration to propose a transfer pricing 
adjustment based on compensating Company S for the marketing activities 
performed (taking account of the risks assumed and the expenditure incurred) 
on  a  basis  that  is  consistent  with  what  independent  enterprises  would  have 
earned in comparable transactions. Depending on the facts and circumstances 
reflected  in  a  detailed  comparability  analysis,  such  an  adjustment  could  be 
based on:

•  Reducing  the  price  paid  by  Company  S  for  the  R  brand  watches 
purchased  from  Primair.  Such  an  adjustment  could  be  based  on 
applying a resale price method or transactional net margin method 
using available data about profits made by comparable marketers and 
distributors  with  a  comparable  level  of  marketing  and  distribution 
expenditure if such comparables can be identified.

•  An  alternative  approach  might  apply 