and arguments that are relevant to the taxpayer’s case.

4.59.  The  mutual  agreement  procedure  envisaged  in  Article  25  of  the 
OECD Model Tax Convention and adopted in many bilateral agreements is 
not a process of litigation. While input from the taxpayer in some cases can 
be  helpful  to  the  procedure,  it  must  be  recalled  that  the  mutual  agreement 

3. 

See  OECD  (2016),  BEPS  Action  14  on  More  Effective  Dispute  Resolution 
Mechanisms  –  Peer  Review  Documents,  OECD/G20  Base  Erosion  and  Profit 
Shifting Project, OECD, Paris.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

192 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

procedure  is  a  government-to-government  process  and  that  any  taxpayer 
participation in that process should be subject to the discretion and mutual 
agreement of the competent authorities.

4.60.  Outside the context of the actual discussions between the competent 
authorities, it is essential for the taxpayer to give the competent authorities 
all the information that is relevant to the issue in a timely manner. Competent 
authorities  have  limited  resources  and  taxpayers  should  make  every  effort 
to  facilitate  the  process,  particularly  in  complex,  fact-intensive  transfer 
pricing cases in which it may be challenging for the competent authorities to 
develop a complete and accurate understanding of the associated enterprises’ 
activities. Further, because the mutual agreement procedure is fundamentally 
designed  as  a  means  of  providing  assistance  to  a  taxpayer,  competent 
authorities should allow taxpayers every reasonable opportunity to present 
the relevant facts and arguments to them to ensure as far as possible that the 
matter is not subject to misunderstanding.

4.61. 
In  practice,  the  competent  authorities  of  many  OECD  member 
countries routinely give taxpayers such opportunities, keep them informed 
of the progress of the discussions, and often ask them during the course of 
the discussions whether they can accept the settlements contemplated by the 
competent authorities. These practices, already standard procedure in most 
jurisdictions, should be adopted as widely as possible. They are reflected in 
the OECD’s Manual for Effective Mutual Agreement Procedures.

C.4.5. Publication of mutual agreement procedure programme guidance
4.62.  Taxpayers’ contributions to the mutual agreement procedure process 
are  of  course  facilitated  where  public  guidance  on  applicable  procedures  is 
readily accessible. The work on Action 14 of the BEPS Action Plan directly 
recognised  the  importance  of  providing  such  guidance.  Element  2.1  of  the 
Action  14  minimum  standard  states  that  jurisdictions  should  develop  and 
publish  rules,  guidelines  and  procedures  regarding  the  mutual  agreement 
procedure and take appropriate measures to make such information available 
to  taxpayers.  Such  guidance  should  include  information  on  how  taxpayers 
may make requests for competent authority assistance. It should be drafted 
in  clear  and  plain  language  and  should  be  readily  available  to  the  public. 
The Report on BEPS Action 14 also notes that such information may be of 
particular  relevance  where  an  adjustment  may  potentially  involve  issues 
within the scope of a tax treaty, such as where a transfer pricing adjustment is 
made with respect to a controlled transaction with an associated enterprise in 
a treaty partner jurisdiction, and that jurisdictions should appropriately seek 
to ensure that mutual agreement procedure programme guidance is available 
to taxpayers  in such cases. To promote  the  transparency  and dissemination 
of such published guidance, element 2.2 of the Action 14 minimum standard 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 193

includes the publication of country mutual agreement procedure profiles on a 
shared public platform, in order to make broadly available competent authority 
contact details, links to relevant domestic guidance and other useful country-
specific  information.  These  country  profiles,  prepared  by  the  members  of 
the Inclusive Framework on BEPS4 pursuant to an agreed reporting template 
developed for that purpose, are published on the OECD website.5
4.63.  The  work  on  Action  14  also  addresses  a  number  of  other  aspects 
related to the content of mutual agreement procedure programme guidance:

•  Element 3.2 of the Action 14 minimum standard states that jurisdictions 
should  identify  in  their  mutual  agreement  procedure  programme 
guidance the specific information and documentation that a taxpayer 
is required to submit with a request for competent authority assistance. 
Pursuant  to  element  3.2,  jurisdictions  should  not  deny  access  to  the 
mutual agreement procedure based on the argument that a taxpayer has 
provided insufficient information where the taxpa