ntry  Reports  or  (c)  it  has  been 
established that there is a failure to exchange the information in practice with a jurisdiction 
after agreeing with that jurisdiction to do so, a secondary mechanism would be accepted 
as appropriate, through local filing or through filing of the Country-by-Country Reports 
by a designated member of the MNE group acting in place of the ultimate parent entity and 
automatic exchange of these reports by its country of tax residence.

E.2.4.2. Implementation Package

61.  Countries participating in the OECD/G20 BEPS Project have therefore developed an 
implementation package for government-to-government exchange of Country-by-Country 
Reports contained in Annex Iv to Chapter v of these Guidelines.

More specifically:

•  Model legislation requiring the ultimate parent entity of an MNE group to file the 
Country-by-Country  Report  in  its  jurisdiction  of  residence  has  been  developed. 
Jurisdictions will be able to adapt this model legislation to their own legal systems, 
where  changes  to  current  legislation  are  required.  Key  elements  of  secondary 
mechanisms have also been developed.

• 

Implementing arrangements for the automatic exchange of the Country-by-Country 
Reports  under  international  agreements  have  been  developed,  incorporating  the 
conditions  set  out  in  Section  E.2.3.  Such  implementing  arrangements  include 
competent  authority  agreements  (“CAAs”)  based  on  existing  international 
agreements (the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in 
Tax Matters, bilateral tax treaties and TIEAs) and inspired by the existing models 
developed by the OECD working with G20 countries for the automatic exchange of 
financial account information.

62.  Participating jurisdictions endeavour to introduce as necessary domestic legislation 
in a timely manner. They are also encouraged to expand the coverage of their international 
agreements  for  exchange  of  information.  The  implementation  of  the  package  will  be 
monitored  on  an  ongoing  basis.  The  outcomes  of  this  monitoring  will  be  taken  into 
consideration in the 2020 review.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

24 –  ChAPTER v OF ThE TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES ON DOCUMENTATION

Note

1. 

Access to a mutual agreement procedure (MAP) will be available when the government-to-
government  exchange  of  the  Country-by-Country  Reports  is  based  on  bilateral  treaties.  In 
cases where the international agreements on which the government-to-government exchanges 
of the Country-by-Country Reports are based do not contain provisions providing access to 
MAP, countries commit to introducing in the competent authority agreement to be developed 
a mechanism for competent authority procedures to discuss with the aim of resolving cases of 
undesirable economic outcomes, including if such cases arise for individual businesses.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

ANNEx I TO ChAPTER v. TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION – MASTER FILE – 25

Annex I to Chapter V 

Transfer pricing documentation – Master file

The following information should be included in the master file:

Organisational structure

•  Chart  illustrating  the  MNE’s  legal  and  ownership  structure  and  geographical 

location of operating entities.

Description of MNE’s business(es)

•  General written description of the MNE’s business including:

- 

Important drivers of business profit;

-  A  description  of  the  supply  chain  for  the  group’s  five  largest  products  and/
or  service  offerings  by  turnover  plus  any  other  products  and/or  services 
amounting to more than 5 percent of group turnover. The required description 
could take the form of a chart or a diagram;

-  A  list  and  brief  description  of  important  service  arrangements  between 
members  of  the  MNE  group,  other  than  research  and  development  (R&D) 
services, including a description of the capabilities of the principal locations 
providing  important  services  and  transfer  pricing  policies  for  allocating 
services costs and determining prices to be paid for intra-group services;

-  A  description  of  the  main  geographic  markets  for  the  group’s  products  and 

services that are referred to in the second bullet point above;

-  A  brief  written  functional  analysis  describing  the  principal  contributions 
to  value  creation  by  individual  entities  within  the  group,  i.e.  key  functions 
performed, important risks assumed, and important assets used;

-  A description of important business restructuring transactions, acquisitions and 

divestitures occurring during the fiscal year.

MNE’s intangibles (as defined in Chapter VI of these Guidelines)

•  A  general  description  of  the  MNE’s  overall  strategy  for  the  development, 
ownership  and  exploitation  of  intangibles,  including 