 to its distribution affiliates, but 
title to the products passes to Company S, which reinvoices the distribution 
affiliates for the products.

75. 
Beginning in year 2, Company S undertakes to reimburse the distribution 
affiliates for a portion of their advertising costs. Prices for Product y from 
Company  S  to  the  distribution  affiliates  are  adjusted  upward  so  that  the 
distribution affiliate operating profit margins remain constant notwithstanding 
the shift of advertising cost to Company S. Assume that the operating profit 
margins  earned  by  the  distribution  affiliates  are  arm’s  length  both  before 
and  after  year  2  given  the  concurrent  changes  in  product  pricing  and  the 
reimbursement of advertising costs. Company S performs no functions with 
regard  to  advertising  nor  does  it  control  any  risk  related  to  marketing  the 
products.

76. 
In year 3, the prices charged by Första to Company S are reduced. 
Första and Company S claim such a reduction in price is justified because 
Company S is now entitled to income related to intangibles. It asserts that 
such  income  is  attributable  to  intangibles  in  respect  of  Product  y  created 
through the advertising costs it has borne.

77. 
In  substance,  Company  S  has  no  claim  to  income  derived  from 
the  exploitation  of  intangibles  with  respect  to  Product  y.  It  performs  no 
functions,  assumes  no  risk,  and  in  substance  bears  no  costs  related  to  the 
development,  enhancement,  maintenance  or  protection  of  intangibles. 
Transfer pricing adjustments to increase the income of Första in year 3 and 
thereafter would be appropriate.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

624 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES

Example 22

Company A owns a government licence for a mining activity and a 
78. 
government licence for the exploitation of a railway. The mining licence has 
a standalone market value of 20. The railway licence has a standalone market 
value of 10. Company A has no other net assets.

79. 
Birincil,  an  entity  which  is  independent  of  Company  A,  acquires 
100% of the equity interests in Company A for 100. Birincil’s purchase price 
allocation performed for accounting purposes with respect to the acquisition 
attributes 20 of the purchase price to the mining licence; 10 to the railway 
licence;  and  70  to  goodwill  based  on  the  synergies  created  between  the 
mining and railway licences.

80. 
Immediately following the acquisition, Birincil causes Company A 
to  transfer  its  mining  and  railway  licences  to  Company  S,  a  subsidiary  of 
Birincil.

81. 
In conducting a transfer pricing analysis of the arm’s length price to 
be paid by Company S for the transaction with Company A, it is important 
to identify with specificity the intangibles transferred. As was the case with 
Birincil’s  arm’s  length  acquisition  of  Company  A,  the  goodwill  associated 
with the licences transferred to Company S would need to be considered, as it 
should generally be assumed that value does not disappear, nor is it destroyed 
as part of an internal business restructuring.

82. 
As  such,  the  arm’s  length  price  for  the  transaction  between 
Companies A and S should take account of the mining licence, the railway 
licence, and the value ascribed to goodwill for accounting purposes. The 100 
paid by Birincil for the shares of Company A represents an arm’s length price 
for  those  shares  and  provides  useful  information  regarding  the  combined 
value of the intangibles.

Example 23

83. 
Birincil  acquires  100%  of  the  equity  interests  in  an  independent 
enterprise,  Company  T  for  100.  Company  T  is  a  company  that  engages  in 
research  and  development  and  has  partially  developed  several  promising 
technologies  but  has  only  minimal  sales.  The  purchase  price  is  justified 
primarily by the value of the promising, but only partly developed, technologies 
and  by  the  potential  of  Company  T  personnel  to  develop  further  new 
technologies  in  the  future.  Birincil’s  purchase  price  allocation  performed 
for  accounting  purposes  with  respect  to  the  acquisition  attributes  20  of  the 
purchase  price  to  tangible  property  and  identified  intangibles,  including 
patents, and 80 to goodwill.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 625

84. 
Immediately  following  the  acquisition,  Birincil  causes  Company  T 
to transfer all of its rights in developed and partially developed technologies, 
including  patents,  trade  secrets  and  technical  know-how  to  Company  S, 
a  subsidiary  of  Birincil.  Company  S  simultaneously  enters  into  a  contract 
research  agreement  with  Company  T,  pursuant  to  which  the  Company  T 
workforce  will  continue  to  work  exclusively  on  the  development  of  the 
transferred technologie