 to  the  taxpayer.  Tax 
administrations are encouraged to take these observations into account in the 
implementation of their penalty provisions.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 181

C.  Corresponding adjustments and the mutual agreement procedure: 

Articles 9 and 25 of the OECD Model Tax Convention1

C.1.  The mutual agreement procedure
4.29.  The mutual agreement procedure is a well-established means through 
which tax administrations consult to resolve disputes regarding the application 
of  double  tax  conventions.  This  procedure,  described  and  authorised  by 
Article  25  of  the  OECD  Model  Tax  Convention,  can  be  used  to  eliminate 
double taxation that could arise from a transfer pricing adjustment.

4.30.  Article  25  sets  out  three  different  areas  where  mutual  agreement 
procedures are generally used. The first area includes instances of “taxation 
not  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Convention”  and  is  covered 
in  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  the  Article.  Procedures  in  this  area  are  typically 
initiated  by  the  taxpayer.  The  other  two  areas,  which  do  not  necessarily 
involve  the  taxpayer,  are  dealt  with  in  paragraph  3  and  involve  questions 
of  “interpretation  or  application  of  the  Convention”  and  the  elimination 
of  double  taxation  in  cases  not  otherwise  provided  for  in  the  Convention. 
Paragraph 10 of the Commentary on Article 25 makes clear that Article 25 is 
intended to be used by competent authorities in resolving not only problems 

1.  Members of the Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) 
have agreed to a minimum standard with respect to the resolution of treaty-related 
disputes.  This  Section  C  of  Chapter  IV  is  not  intended  to  be  an  explanation  of 
the  minimum  standard,  and  thus  there  is  no  implication  that  all  members  of 
the  Inclusive  Framework  are  in  agreement  with  the  guidance  contained  in  this 
section, except where a particular statement is explicitly identified as an element 
of  the  minimum  standard.  The  minimum  standard  has  three  general  objectives: 
(1)  jurisdictions  should  ensure  that  treaty  obligations  related  to  the  mutual 
agreement procedure are fully implemented in good faith and that MAP cases are 
resolved  in  a  timely  manner;  (2)  jurisdictions  should  ensure  that  administrative 
processes promote the prevention and timely resolution of treaty-related disputes; 
and  (3)  jurisdictions  should  ensure  that  taxpayers  that  meet  the  requirements  of 
paragraph 1 of Article 25 can access the mutual agreement procedure. The detailed 
elements of the minimum standard are set out in OECD (2015), Making Dispute 
Resolution  Mechanisms  More  Effective,  Action  14  –  2015  Report,  OECD/G20 
BEPS Project, OECD Publishing, Paris. The minimum standard is complemented 
by a set of best practices (to which not all members of the Inclusive Framework 
have committed) that respond to the obstacles that prevent the resolution of treaty-
related  disputes  through  the  mutual  agreement  procedure.  In  addition,  although 
there is currently no consensus among all members of the Inclusive Framework on 
the adoption of mandatory binding arbitration as a mechanism to ensure the timely 
resolution of MAP cases, a significant group of countries has committed to adopt 
and implement mandatory binding arbitration.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

182 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

of juridical double taxation but also those of economic double taxation arising 
from transfer pricing adjustments made pursuant to paragraph 1 of Article 9.

4.31. 
Paragraph 5 of Article 25, which was incorporated in the OECD Model 
Tax Convention in 2008, provides that, in mutual agreement procedure cases in 
which the competent authorities are unable to reach an agreement within two 
years of the initiation of the case under paragraph 1 of Article 25, the unresolved 
issues  will,  at  the  request  of  the  person  who  presented  the  case,  be  resolved 
through an arbitration process. This extension of the mutual agreement procedure 
ensures  that  where  the  competent  authorities  cannot  reach  an  agreement  on 
one  or  more  issues  that  prevent  the  resolution  of  a  case,  a  resolution  of  the 
case will still be possible by submitting those issues to arbitration. Where one 
or  more  issues  have  been  submitted  to  arbitration  in  accordance  with  such  a 
provision, and unless a person directly affected by the case does not accept the 
mutual agreement that implements the arbitration decision, that decision shall 
be binding on both States, the taxation of any person directly affected by the 
case will have to conform with the decision reached on the issues submitted to 
arbitration and the decisions reached in the arbitral 