or the application of the arm’s length principle 
to the restructuring itself and to the post-restructuring transactions.

9.20.  The  framework  and  detailed  guidance  for  analysing  risk  laid  out 
in Section D.1.2.1 of Chapter I is applicable for purposes of undertaking an 
analysis of risks in the context of business restructurings, and in particular 
for determining which party assumes a specific risk by reference to control 
and  financial  capacity.  It  is  crucial  to  apply  this  framework  to  determine 
which party assumes specific risks before the restructuring and which party 
assumes  specific  risks  following  the  restructuring.  For  example,  where  a 
restructuring purports to transfer inventory risk, it is relevant to examine not 
only the contractual terms, but also the conduct of the parties under Step 3 
in  the  framework  (e.g.  where  any  inventory  write-downs  are  taken  before 
and  after  the  restructuring,  whether  there  is  any  indemnification  for  those 
inventory write-downs, which party or parties perform risk control functions 
and  have  the  financial  capacity  to  assume  the  risks).  The  results  of  this 
analysis may establish that before the restructuring one party assumed the 
inventory risk and that same party continues to do so after the restructuring 
notwithstanding  a  change  in  contractual  terms.  In  that  situation,  the  risk 
would continue to be allocated to that same party. References in this Chapter 
to  “transfer  of  risk”,  “relocation  of  risk,  “shifting  of  risk”  or  “laying  off 
of  risk”  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  the  guidance  in  Section  D.1  of 
Chapter  I.  In  particular,  the  transferee  of  the  risk  is  considered  to  assume 
the risk when the conditions set out in the framework for analysing risk in 
controlled transactions (Section D.1.2.1 of Chapter I) are met.

9.21.  A  second  example  relates  to  the  purported  transfer  of  credit  risk 
as  part  of  a  business  restructuring.  The  analysis  under  Section  D.1.2.1  of 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 365

Chapter I would take into account the contractual terms before and after the 
restructuring, but would also examine how the parties operate in relation to 
the risk before and after the restructuring. The analysis would then examine 
whether  the  party  that  contractually  assumes  the  risk  controls  the  risk  in 
practice  through  relevant  capability  and  decision-making  as  defined  in 
paragraph 1.65 and has the financial capacity to assume such risk as defined in 
paragraph 1.64. It is important to note that a party that before the restructuring 
did not assume a risk under the analysis of Section D.1.2.1 of Chapter I cannot 
transfer it to another party, and a party that after the restructuring does not 
assume a risk under the analysis of Section D.1.2.1 of Chapter I should not be 
allocated the profit potential associated with that risk.

• 

•  For  example,  suppose  that  before  a  business  restructuring,  a  full-
fledged  distributor  contractually  assumes  bad  debt  risks,  which  is 
reflected  in  the  balance  sheet  at  year  end.  However,  the  analysis 
described  above  establishes  that  before  the  business  restructuring, 
decisions about the extension of credit terms to customers and debt 
recovery  were  taken  by  an  associated  enterprise  and  not  by  the 
distributor,  and  the  associated  enterprise  reimbursed  the  costs  of 
irrecoverable debts. It is also determined that the associated enterprise 
is the only entity that controlled the risk and had the financial capacity 
to assume the bad debt risk, leading to the conclusion that, before the 
business restructuring, the risk was not assumed by the distributor. In 
such a case there is no bad debt risk for the distributor to transfer as 
part of the business restructuring.
In  other  circumstances  it  may  be  found  that  before  the  business 
restructuring  the  distributor  controlled  the  bad  debt  risk  and  had 
the  financial  capacity  to  assume  the  risk  it  contractually  assumed, 
but mitigated its risk through indemnification arrangements or debt 
factoring arrangements with an associated enterprise in exchange for 
appropriate compensation. Following the business restructuring, the 
bad debt risk is contractually assumed by that associated enterprise 
which,  as  determined  under  the  analysis  described  above,  now 
controls the risk and has the financial capacity to assume the risk. 
The risk has, therefore been transferred but the impact on the profits 
of  the  distributor  going  forward  compared  with  the  past  resulting 
from the transfer of this risk alone may be limited, because before the 
restructuring steps had been taken and costs incurred to mitigate the 
risk outcomes of the distributor.
9.22. 
In  any  analysis  of  risks  in  contro