FER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

450 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

E.3.3. Group synergy

10.222. Where a captive insurance is used so that the MNE group can access 
the reinsurance market to divest itself of risk through insuring risk outside the 
MNE group, whilst making cost savings over using a third party intermediary, 
by pooling risks within the MNE group, the captive arrangement harnesses 
the benefits of collective negotiation on any reinsured risks and more efficient 
allocation of capital in respect of any risks retained. These benefits arise as 
a result of the concerted actions of the MNE policyholders  and the  captive 
insurance. The insured participants jointly contribute with the expectation that 
each of them will benefit through reduced premiums. This is similar to the 
type of group-wide arrangements that might exist for other group functions 
such as purchasing of goods or services. Where the captive insurance insures 
the risk and reinsures it in the open market, it should receive an appropriate 
reward for the basic services it provides. The remaining group synergy benefit 
should be allocated among the insured participants by means of discounted 
premiums.

10.223.  For  example,  a  manufacturing  MNE  group  has  50  subsidiaries  in 
different locations around the world, all in locations with substantial risk of 
earthquake,  each  insures  against  earthquake  damage  at  its  manufacturing 
plant, with each plant in a different location, assessed on its individual level 
of risk. The MNE group sets up a captive insurance which accepts the risk 
from all of the subsidiaries and reinsures it with independent reinsurers. By 
bringing together a portfolio of insurance risks across different geographical 
zones,  the  MNE  group  already  represents  a  diversified  risk  to  the  market. 
The synergy benefit arises from the collective purchasing arrangement, not 
from value added by the captive insurance. It should be allocated amongst the 
insured according to the level of premium they contributed.

E.3.4. Agency sales

10.224. Where  an  insurance  contract  is  not  sold  directly  from  insurer  to 
insured,  recompense  will  usually  be  due  to  the  party  who  arranges  the 
original sale. In certain circumstances a higher rate of profit might be earned 
on the third party sale than would otherwise be expected from comparison 
with similar transactions. Where the sales agent and insurer or reinsurer are 
associated, any comparability analysis as part of the process of determining 
the  arm’s  length  level  of  reward  for  the  parties  would  need  to  consider 
the  circumstances  that  give  rise  to  the  high  level  of  profit.  Competition 
would usually work to limit the amount of profit which can be earned on a 
trans action both on the part of the sales agent and on that of the insurer or 
reinsurer.  The  availability  of  alternative  providers  may  also  influence  the 
ability of each party to negotiate a higher level of profit as part of the overall 
transaction.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 451

10.225.  For example Company A is a high street retailer of high value new 
technology consumer goods. At the point of sale, A offers insurance policies 
to  third  party  customers  which  provide  accidental  damage  and  theft  cover 
for  a  3-year  period.  The  policies  are  insured  by  Company  B,  an  insurer 
which is part of the same MNE group as A. A receives a commission with 
substantially  all  of  the  profit  on  the  insurance  contract  going  to  B.  A  full 
factual and functional analysis shows that the insurance contracts are very 
profitable and that there is an active market for insurance and reinsurance of 
the type of risks covered by the policies. Benchmarking studies show that the 
commission paid to A is in line with independent agents selling similar cover 
as  a  standalone  product.  The  profit  B  earns  is  above  the  level  of  insurers 
providing similar cover.

10.226.  In considering how the conditions of the transaction between A and 
B differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, 
it is important to consider how the high level of profitability of the insurance 
policies  is  achieved  and  the  contributions  of  each  of  the  parties  to  that 
value  creation.  The  product  sold  to  the  third  party  is  an  insurance  policy 
substantially the same as that which any other insurer in the general market 
could  provide.  The  sales  agent  has  the  advantage  of  offering  the  insurance 
policy  to  its  customer  alongside  the  sale  of  the  goods  to  be  insured.  It  is 
the  advantage  of  intervening  at  the  point  of  this  sale  which  provides  the 
opportunity to earn a high level of profit. A could sell policies underwritten 
by  another  insurer  and  retain  most  of  the  profit  for  itself.  B  could  not 