nistration may be entitled to request.

8.52.  The following information would be relevant and useful concerning 
the initial terms of the CCA:

a)  a list of participants

b)  a  list  of  any  other  associated  enterprises  that  will  be  involved 
with the CCA activity or that are expected to exploit or use the 
results of the subject activity

c) 

the  scope  of  the  activities  and  specific  projects  covered  by  the 
CCA, and how the CCA activities are managed and controlled

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS – 355

d)  the duration of the arrangement

e) 

f) 

g) 

h) 

the  manner  in  which  participants’  proportionate  shares  of 
expected benefits are measured, and any projections used in this 
determination

the manner in which any future benefits (such as intangibles) are 
expected to be exploited

the  form  and  value  of  each  participant’s  initial  contributions, 
and  a  detailed  description  of  how  the  value  of  initial  and 
ongoing contributions is determined (including any budgeted vs 
actual  adjustments)  and  how  accounting  principles  are  applied 
consistently to all participants in determining expenditures and 
the value of contributions

the  anticipated  allocation  of  responsibilities  and  tasks,  and  the 
mechanisms for managing and controlling those responsibilities and 
tasks, in particular, those relating to the development, enhancement, 
maintenance, protection or exploitation of intangibles or tangible 
assets used in the CCA activity

i) 

the procedures for and consequences of a participant entering or 
withdrawing from the CCA and the termination of the CCA

j)  any provisions for balancing payments or for adjusting the terms 
of the arrangement to reflect changes in economic circumstances.

8.53.  Over the duration of the CCA term, the following information could 
be useful:

a)  any  change  to  the  arrangement  (e.g.  in  terms,  participants, 

subject activity), and the consequences of such change

b)  a comparison between projections used to determine the share of 
expected benefits from the CCA activity with the actual share of 
benefits (however, regard should be had to paragraph 3.74)

c) 

the annual expenditure incurred in conducting the CCA activity, 
the  form  and  value  of  each  participant’s  contributions  made 
during  the  CCA’s  term,  and  a  detailed  description  of  how  the 
value of contributions is determined.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 357

Chapter IX 

Transfer pricing aspects of business restructurings

Introduction

A. Scope

A.1. Business restructurings that are within the scope of this chapter

9.1. 
There  is  no  legal  or  universally  accepted  definition  of  business 
restructuring. In the context of this chapter, business restructuring refers to the 
cross-border reorganisation of the commercial or financial relations between 
associated enterprises, including the termination or substantial renegotiation 
of existing arrangements. Relationships with third parties (e.g. suppliers, sub-
contractors, customers) may be a reason for the restructuring or be affected 
by it.

9.2. 
Business  restructurings  may  often  involve  the  centralisation  of 
intangibles,  risks,  or  functions  with  the  profit  potential  attached  to  them. 
They may typically consist of:

•  Conversion  of  full-fledged  distributors  (that  is,  enterprises  with 
a  relatively  higher  level  of  functions  and  risks)  into  limited-risk 
distributors,  marketers,  sales  agents,  or  commissionnaires  (that  is, 
enterprises with a relatively lower level of functions and risks) for a 
foreign associated enterprise that may operate as a principal,

•  Conversion  of  full-fledged  manufacturers  (that  is,  enterprises 
with  a  relatively  higher  level  of  functions  and  risks)  into  contract 
manufacturers  or  toll  manufacturers  (that  is,  enterprises  with  a 
relatively lower level of functions and risks) for a foreign associated 
enterprise that may operate as a principal,

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
358 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

•  Transfers  of  intangibles  or  rights  in  intangibles  to  a  central  entity 

(e.g. a so-called “IP company”) within the group,

•  The concentration of functions in a regional or central entity, with 
a corresponding reduction in scope or scale of functions carried out 
locally;  examples  may  include  procurement,  sales  support,  supply 
chain logistics.

9.3. 
There  are  also  business  restructurings  whereby  more  intangibles 
or  risks  are  allocated  to  operational  entities  (e.g.  to  manufacturers  or 
distributors). Business restructurings can also consist of the rationalisation, 
specialisation or de-specialisation of operations (manufacturing sites and/or 
processes, research and development activities, sales, ser