when leaving their workspace at the end of the day? Are these procedures publicly 
available? If yes, please provide the reference. If not, please provide a summary.
Does your tax administration have a data classification policy? If so, please describe how your 
document storage procedures differ for data at all classification levels. Are these procedures 
publicly available? If yes, please provide the reference. If not, please provide a summary.

2.3 Planning

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Planning documentation to develop, update, and implement 

security information systems

What procedures does your tax administration maintain to develop, document, update, and 
implement security for information systems used to receive, process, archive and retrieve 
confidential information? Are these procedures publicly available? If yes, please provide the 
reference. If not, please provide a summary.
What procedures does your tax administration maintain regarding periodic Information 
Security Plan updates to address changes to the information systems environment, and how 
are problems and risks identified during the implementation of Information Security Plans 
resolved? Are these procedures publicly available? If yes, please provide the reference. If 
not, please provide a summary.

2.4 Configuration Management

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Configuration management and security controls

What policies does your tax administration maintain to regulate system configuration and 
updates? Are the policies publicly available? If yes, please provide the reference. If not, 
please provide a summary.

2.5 Access Control

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Access Control Policies and procedures: authorised personnel 

and international exchange of information

What policies does your tax administration maintain to limit system access to authorised 
users and safeguard data during transmission when received and stored? Please describe 
how your tax administration’s access authorisation and data transmission policies 
extend to data received from an exchange of information partner under a treaty or TIEA or 
other exchange agreement. Are the policies publicly available? If yes, please provide the 
reference. If not, please provide a summary.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

582 – ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

2.6 Identification and Authentication

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Authenticating the identifying users and devices that require access 

to information systems

What policies and procedures does your tax administration maintain for each information 
system connected to confidential data? Are the policies and procedures publicly available? 
If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.
What policies and procedures govern the authentication of authorised tax administration 
users by systems connected to confidential data? Are the policies and procedures publicly 
available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

2.7 Audit and Accountability

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Traceable electronic actions within systems
•  System audit procedures: monitoring, analysing, investigating, and 

reporting of unlawful/unauthorised use

What policies and procedures does your tax administration maintain to ensure system 
audits take place that will detect unauthorised access? Are the policies publicly available? If 
so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

2.8 Maintenance

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Periodic and timely maintenance of systems
•  Controls over: tools, procedures, and mechanisms for system 

maintenance and personnel use

What policies govern effective periodic system maintenance by your tax administration? Are 
these policies publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a 
summary.
What procedures govern the resolution of system flaws identified by your tax 
administration? Are these procedures publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If 
not, please provide a summary.

2.9 System and Communications Protection

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Procedures to monitor, control, and protect communications to and 

from information systems

What policies and procedures does your tax administration maintain for the electronic 
transmission and receipt of confidential data. Please describe the security and encryption 
requirements addressed in these policies. Are these policies publicly available? If so, please 
provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 583

2.10 System and Information Integrity

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Procedures to identify, report, and correct information system flaws 

in a timely manner

•  Protection against malicious code and monitoring system security 

alerts

What procedures does your 