, negotiation 
and  conclusion  of  a  suitable  agreement.  The  level  of  input  and  resources 
required should be tailored to the individual requirements of the case.

62. 
Experience  has  also  shown  that  early  and  frequent  discussion 
between the competent authorities as problems arise can be helpful and can 
avoid  unpleasant  surprises  during  the  process.  Given  the  nature  of  MAP 
APAs, there will often be significant issues which cannot be resolved simply 
by exchange of position papers and so more formal exchanges, such as face 
to face meetings between the competent authorities may be required. Use of 
conference calls or video conferencing may be helpful.

D.3.2. Role of the taxpayer in Competent Authority discussions

The role of the taxpayer in this process is necessarily more limited, 
63. 
than in the fact finding process, given that the finalisation of a MAP APA is 
a government to government process. The competent authorities may agree 
to have the taxpayer make a presentation of the factual and legal issues before 
the discussions themselves commence, when the taxpayer would leave. It also 
may be helpful to arrange to have the taxpayer available, on call, to answer 
any  factual  questions  that  may  arise  during  the  discussions.  The  taxpayer 
should avoid presenting new factual information or making supplementary 
representations at this meeting. The tax authorities will require time to review 
such matters and this will necessitate a postponement of a final decision on 
the proposed MAP APA. Such information should have been supplied prior 
to the commencement of the discussions.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS – 535

D.3.3. Withdrawal from the APA process

The  taxpayer  or  tax  administration  may  withdraw  from  the  MAP 
64. 
APA process at any time. However, withdrawal from the process, especially 
at  a  late  stage  and  without  good  cause,  should  be  discouraged  because  of 
the inevitable waste of resources caused by such action. When a MAP APA 
request is withdrawn neither the taxpayer nor the tax administrations should 
have  any  obligations  to  each  other,  and  any  previous  undertakings  and 
understandings between the parties would be of no further force and effect, 
unless  otherwise  required  by  domestic  law  (e.g.  APA  user  fee  may  not  be 
refundable). If a tax administration proposes to withdraw, the taxpayer should 
be advised of the reasons for such action and given an opportunity to make 
further representations.

D.3.4. Mutual agreement document

65. 
Participating  competent  authorities  should  prepare  a  draft  mutual 
agreement  when  they  have  agreed  on  the  methodology  and  other  terms 
and  conditions.  It  may  be  that,  despite  the  best  efforts  of  the  competent 
authorities,  the  proposed  mutual  agreement  does  not  completely  eliminate 
double taxation. The taxpayer(s) should therefore be given an opportunity to 
say whether such a draft MAP APA is acceptable before it is finalised; there 
can be no question of imposing such an agreement in advance without the 
taxpayer’s consent.

66. 
The MAP APA will be in the form of a written document and the 
content, layout etc. will be decided by the participating competent authorities. 
In order to achieve the objective of providing a clear record of  the mutual 
agreement and for the agreement to be effectively implemented, the mutual 
agreement  should  contain  the  following  minimum  information  or  should 
refer  to  where  this  information  is  provided  in  the  MAP  APA  proposal 
documentation:

a)  The names and addresses of the enterprises that are covered by 

the arrangement;

b)  The  transactions,  agreements  or  arrangements,  tax  years  or 

accounting periods covered;

c)  A description of the agreed methodology and other related matters 

such as agreed comparables or a range of expected results;

d)  A definition of relevant terms which form the basis of applying 
and calculating the methodology (e.g. sales, cost of sales, gross 
profit, etc.);

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

536 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS

e)  Critical assumptions upon which the methodology is based, the 
breach of which would trigger renegotiation of the agreement;

f)  Any  agreed  procedures  to  deal  with  changes  in  the  factual 
circumstances which fall short of necessitating the renegotiation 
of the agreement;

g)  If applicable, the agreed tax treatment of ancillary issues;

h)  The terms and conditions that must be fulfilled by the taxpayer 
in order for the mutual agreement to remain valid together with 
procedures to ensure that the taxpayer is fulfilling those terms 
and conditions;

i)  Details  of  the  taxpayer’s  obligations  to  the  tax  administrations 
as  a  result  of  the  domestic  implementation  of  the  MAP  APA 
(e.g. 