s 
assumed are comparable to those undertaken by independent enterprises. As 
indicated in Chapter II, Part II, in applying the cost plus method, there should 
be a consistency between the controlled and uncontrolled transactions in the 
categories of cost that are included. In exceptional cases, for example where it 
may be difficult to apply the CUP method or the cost-based methods, it may 
be helpful to take account of more than one method (see paragraph 2.12) in 
reaching a satisfactory determination of arm’s length pricing.

7.32. 
It may be necessary to perform a functional analysis of the various 
members  of  the  group  to  establish  the  relationship  between  the  relevant 
services  and  the  members’  activities  and  performance.  In  addition,  it  may 
be  necessary  to  consider  not  only  the  immediate  impact  of  a  service,  but 
also its long-term effect, bearing in mind that some costs will never actually 
produce the benefits that were reasonably expected when they were incurred. 
For example, expenditure on preparations for a marketing operation might 
prima facie be too heavy to be borne by a member in the light of its current 
resources; the determination whether the charge in such a case is arm’s length 
should consider expected benefits from the operation and the possibility that 
the  amount  and  timing  of  the  charge  in  some  arm’s  length  arrangements 
might depend on the results of the operation. The taxpayer should be prepared 
to demonstrate the reasonableness of its charges to associated enterprises in 
such cases.

7.33.  Where a cost based method is determined to be the most appropriate 
method  to  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  the  analysis  would  require 
examining  whether  the  costs  incurred  by  the  group  service  provider  need 
some adjustment to make the comparison of the controlled and uncontrolled 
transactions reliable.

7.34.  When an associated enterprise is acting only as an agent or intermediary 
in the provision of services, it is important in applying a cost based method 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

324 – CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES

that the return or mark-up is appropriate for the performance of an agency 
function  rather  than  for  the  performance  of  the  services  themselves.  In 
such a case, it may not be appropriate to determine arm’s length pricing as 
a mark-up on the cost of the services but rather on the costs of the agency 
function itself. For example, an associated enterprise may incur the costs of 
renting advertising space on behalf of group members, costs that the group 
members would have incurred directly had they been independent. In such a 
case, it may well be appropriate to pass on these costs to the group recipients 
without a mark-up, and to apply a mark-up only to the costs incurred by the 
intermediary in performing its agency function.

B.2.3.2. Considerations on including a profit element

7.35.  Depending  on  the  method  being  used  to  establish  an  arm’s  length 
charge for intra-group services, the issue may arise whether it is necessary 
that  the  charge  be  such  that  it  results  in  a  profit  for  the  service  provider. 
In  an  arm’s  length  transaction,  an  independent  enterprise  normally  would 
seek to charge for services in such a way as to generate profit, rather than 
providing the services merely at cost. The economic alternatives available to 
the recipient of the service also need to be taken into account in determining 
the arm’s length charge. However, there are circumstances (e.g. as outlined in 
the discussion on business strategies in Chapter I) in which an independent 
enterprise may not realise a profit from the performance of services alone, 
for  example  where  a  supplier’s  costs  (anticipated  or  actual)  exceed  market 
price but the supplier agrees to provide the service to increase its profitability, 
perhaps  by  complementing  its  range  of  activities.  Therefore,  it  need  not 
always  be  the  case  that  an  arm’s  length  price  will  result  in  a  profit  for  an 
associated enterprise that is performing an intra-group service.
7.36.  For example, it may be the case that the market value of intra-group 
services is not greater than the costs incurred by the service provider. This 
could occur where, for example, the service is not an ordinary or recurrent 
activity of the service provider but is offered incidentally as a convenience to 
the MNE group. In determining whether the intra-group services represent 
the  same  value  for  money  as  could  be  obtained  from  an  independent 
enterprise,  a  comparison  of  functions  and  expected  benefits  would  be 
relevant to assessing comparability of the transactions. An MNE group may 
still  determine  to  provide  the  service  intra-group  rather  than  using  a  third 
party for a variety of reasons, perhaps because of other intra-group benefits 
(for which arm