nalyses.) 
The process also provides the taxpayer with an opportunity to discuss any 
concerns  regarding  disclosure  and  confidentiality  of  data,  the  term  of  the 
APA and the like. Experience has generally shown that the ability to have 
such  preliminary  discussions  expedites  the  processing  of  any  subsequent 
formal MAP APA proposal.

30. 
In the context of a MAP APA, the ability of the relevant competent 
authorities to have preliminary discussions with the taxpayer(s) may also be 
useful.  In  addition  to  the  matters  mentioned  above,  the  discussions  could 
usefully explore whether the circumstances were suitable for a MAP APA, 
for  example  whether  there  were  sufficient  “difficulties  or  doubts  as  to  the 
interpretation or application of the Convention”.

31. 
The preliminary meeting may also have a useful role in clarifying 
the expectations and objectives of the taxpayer(s) and the tax administration. 
It also provides an opportunity to explain the process, the policy of the tax 
administration  on  MAP  APAs  and  to  give  details  of  any  procedures  for 
giving effect in domestic law to the agreement when completed. At the same 
time,  the  tax  administration  could  provide  guidance  as  to  the  content  of 
the proposal, and the time frame for evaluating and concluding the mutual 
agreement. Tax administrations should publish general guidance on the MAP 
APA  process  in  accordance  with  the  recommendation  for  other  types  of 
mutual agreements in paragraphs 4.62-4.63 of the Guidelines.

32. 
The  preliminary  meeting  process  may  be  conducted  on  either  an 
anonymous or a named basis, depending on domestic custom and practice. If 
on an anonymous basis, however, sufficient information about the operations 
will be required in order to make any discussion meaningful. The form of any 
meetings should be agreed between the  parties and  a preliminary meeting 
may range from an informal discussion to a formal presentation. Typically, 
it  is  in  the  taxpayer’s  interest  to  provide  the  tax  administration  with  a 
memorandum outlining the topics for discussion. More than one preliminary 
meeting  may  be  required  in  order  to  achieve  the  objective  of  having  an 
informal  discussion  of  the  potential  suitability  of  a  MAP  APA  request,  its 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS – 525

likely scope, the appropriateness of a methodology or the type and extent of 
information to be provided by the taxpayer.

33. 
As well as informal discussions with its taxpayer(s), it may be useful 
for the respective competent authorities to have an early exchange of views 
on whether a MAP APA would be appropriate. This could avoid unnecessary 
work  if  it  is  unlikely  that  one  of  the  competent  authorities  will  participate. 
These discussions may be of an informal nature and do not necessarily require 
a formal face to face meeting. Also there may be opportunities to have such 
exchanges  during  the  course  of  regular  competent  authority  meetings  and 
negotiations.

C.3. MAP APA proposals

C.3.1. Introduction

34. 
If the taxpayer wishes to pursue a MAP APA request, it will need to 
make a detailed proposal to the relevant tax administration, pursuant to any 
domestic procedural requirements, e.g. a requirement to file the request with 
a designated part of the domestic tax administration. For a MAP APA, the 
purpose of the taxpayer’s proposal is to give the relevant competent authorities 
all the information needed to evaluate the proposal and to undertake mutual 
agreement  discussions.  Jurisdictions  have  a  number  of  ways  of  ensuring 
the competent authorities get the necessary information. One way is for the 
taxpayer to be able to make the proposal directly to the competent authority. 
Another way of achieving this goal is for the taxpayer to make available a copy 
of any domestic APA proposal to the other participating jurisdictions. Ideally, 
the exact form and content of the proposal will have been established at any 
preliminary meetings.

C.3.2. Activities usually covered in a MAP APA process

35. 
The  scope  of  the  MAP  APA  would  depend  on  the  wishes  of  the 
participating  jurisdictions,  as  well  as  those  of  the  taxpayer.  It  can  apply  to 
resolve issues covered by Articles 7 and 9 of the OECD Model Convention and 
would determine to what extents profits would arise in the tax jurisdictions 
involved.

36. 
The  MAP  APA  may  cover  all  of  the  transfer  pricing  issues  of  a 
taxpayer (or of the members of a MNE group) or may be more limited, for 
example to a particular transaction, sets of transactions, product lines or to 
only some members of a MNE group. Some jurisdictions, whilst recognising 
the need for flexibility in the process, have concerns over the appropriateness 
of  specific  issue  APAs.  It  may  be  difficult 