isdiction,  any  term  not  otherwise  defined  in 
this Agreement will, unless the context otherwise requires or the Competent 
Authorities  agree  to  a  common  meaning  (as  permitted  by  domestic  law), 
have  the  meaning  that  it  has  at  that  time  under  the  law  of  the  Jurisdiction 
applying this Agreement, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that 
Jurisdiction prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other laws of 
that Jurisdiction.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

596 – ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

SECTION 2
Exchange of Information with Respect to MNE Groups

Pursuant to the provisions of Article [5A] of the TIEA, each Competent 
Authority  will  annually  exchange  on  an  automatic  basis  the  CbC  Report 
received  from  each  Reporting  Entity  that  is  resident  for  tax  purposes  in 
its  Jurisdiction  with  the  other  Competent  Authority,  provided  that,  on 
the  basis  of  the  information  provided  in  the  CbC  Report,  one  or  more 
Constituent Entities of the MNE Group of the Reporting Entity are resident 
for tax purposes in the Jurisdiction of the other Competent Authority or, are 
subject to tax with respect to the business carried out through a permanent 
establishment situated in the Jurisdiction of the other Competent Authority.

SECTION 3
Time and Manner of Exchange of Information

For  the  purposes  of  the  exchange  of  information  in  Section  2,  the 

1. 
currency of the amounts contained in the CbC Report will be specified.

With  respect  to  Section  2,  a  CbC  Report  is  first  to  be  exchanged 
2. 
with  respect  to  fiscal  years  of  MNE  Groups  commencing  on  or  after  […]. 
Such CbC Report is to be exchanged as soon as possible and no later than 
18 months after the last day of the fiscal year of the Reporting Entity of the 
MNE Group to which the CbC Report relates. CbC Reports with respect to 
subsequent fiscal years are to be exchanged as soon as possible and no later 
than  15  months  after  the  last  day  of  the  fiscal  year  of  the  MNE  Group  to 
which the CbC Report relates.

The  Competent  Authorities  will  automatically  exchange  the  CbC 

3. 
Reports through a common schema in Extensible Markup Language.

4. 
The  Competent  Authorities  will  work  towards  and  agree  on  one 
or  more  methods  for  electronic  data  transmission  including  encryption 
standards.

SECTION 4
Collaboration on Compliance and Enforcement

A Competent Authority will notify the other Competent Authority when 
the first-mentioned Competent Authority has reason to believe, with respect 
to  a  Reporting  Entity  that  is  resident  for  tax  purposes  in  the  Jurisdiction 
of  the  other  Competent  Authority,  that  an  error  may  have  led  to  incorrect 
or  incomplete  information  reporting  or  that  there  is  non-compliance  of  a 
Reporting Entity with the respect to its obligation to file a CbC Report. The 
notified  Competent  Authority  will  take  all  appropriate  measures  available 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 597

under its domestic law to address the errors or non-compliance described in 
the notice.

SECTION 5
Confidentiality, Data Safeguards and Appropriate Use

All information exchanged is subject to the confidentiality rules and 
1. 
other safeguards provided for in the TIEA, including the provisions limiting 
the use of the information exchanged.

In addition to the restrictions in paragraph 1, the use of the information 
2. 
will  be  further  limited  to  the  permissible  uses  described  in  this  paragraph. 
In particular, information received by means of the CbC Report will be used 
for  assessing  high-level  transfer  pricing,  base  erosion  and  profit  shifting 
related  risks,  and,  where  appropriate,  for  economic  and  statistical  analysis. 
The information will not be used as a substitute for a detailed transfer pricing 
analysis  of  individual  transactions  and  prices  based  on  a  full  functional 
analysis and a full comparability analysis. It is acknowledged that information 
in  the  CbC  Report  on  its  own  does  not  constitute  conclusive  evidence  that 
transfer prices are or are not appropriate and, consequently, transfer pricing 
adjustments will not be based on the CbC Report. Inappropriate adjustments 
in  contravention  of  this  paragraph  made  by  local  tax  administrations  will 
be  conceded  in  any  competent  authority  proceedings.  Notwithstanding  the 
above,  there  is  no  prohibition  on  using  the  CbC  Report  data  as  a  basis  for 
making  further  enquiries  into  the  MNE’s  transfer  pricing  arrangements  or 
into other tax matters in the course of a tax audit and, as a result, appropriate 
adjustments to the taxable income of a Constituent Entity may be made.

To  the  exten