 to  add  a  risk  premium  to  the  risk-free  return,  based  on  the 
information  available  in  the  market  on  financial  instruments  issued  under 
similar conditions and circumstances.

1.125.  For  instance,  consider  the  same  fact  pattern  as  described  in 
paragraph  1.114  but,  in  this  particular  scenario,  assume  that  Company  A 
is  found  to  be  entitled  to  a  risk-adjusted  rate  of  return  under  this  chapter. 
To  determine  that  return,  the  tax  administration  of  Country  X  considers 
adding a risk premium to the risk-free rate of return, i.e. the security issued 
by  the  government  in  Country  Z  with  a  term  of  one  year.  To  estimate  the 
risk-adjusted return, Country X’s tax administration considers that corporate 
bonds  issued  by  independent  parties  resident  in  Country  X  operating  in 
the  same  industry  as  Company  B  yield  a  return  comparable  to  the  one 
that an independent party would have expected had it invested its funds in 
Company B under comparable circumstances.

1.126.  Under  an  approach  based  on  the  cost  of  funds,  the  controlled 
transaction would be priced by adding a profit margin to the costs incurred 
by  the  lender  to  raise  the  funds  advanced  to  the  borrower.  That  mark-up 
should  be  proportionate  to  the  risk  assumed  by  the  lender  and  calculated 
according to the guidance provided in paragraphs 10.97-10.100.

D.1.3. Characteristics of property or services

1.127.  Differences  in  the  specific  characteristics  of  property  or  services 
often  account,  at  least  in  part,  for  differences  in  their  value  in  the  open 
market. Therefore, comparisons of these features may be useful in delineating 
the  transaction  and  in  determining  the  comparability  of  controlled  and 
uncontrolled  transactions.  Characteristics  that  may  be  important  to 
consider include the following: in the case of transfers of tangible property, 
the  physical  features  of  the  property,  its  quality  and  reliability,  and  the 
availability and volume of supply; in the case of the provision of services, the 
nature and extent of the services; and in the case of intangible property, the 
form of transaction (e.g. licensing or sale), the type of property (e.g. patent, 
trademark,  or  know-how),  the  duration  and  degree  of  protection,  and  the 
anticipated  benefits  from  the  use  of  the  property.  For  further  discussion 
of  some  of  the  specific  features  of  intangibles  that  may  prove  important 
in  a  comparability  analysis  involving  transfers  of  intangibles  or  rights  in 
intangibles, see Section D.2.1 of Chapter VI.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 71

1.128.  Depending  on  the  transfer  pricing  method,  this  factor  must  be 
given  more  or  less  weight.  Among  the  methods  described  at  Chapter  II  of 
these Guidelines, the requirement for comparability of property or services 
is  the  strictest  for  the  comparable  uncontrolled  price  method.  Under  the 
comparable  uncontrolled  price  method,  any  material  difference  in  the 
characteristics  of  property  or  services  can  have  an  effect  on  the  price  and 
would require an appropriate adjustment to be considered (see in particular 
paragraph 2.16). Under the resale price method and cost plus method, some 
differences  in  the  characteristics  of  property  or  services  are  less  likely  to 
have  a  material  effect  on  the  gross  profit  margin  or  mark-up  on  costs  (see 
in  particular  paragraphs  2.29  and  2.47).  Differences  in  the  characteristics 
of property or services are also less sensitive in the case of the transactional 
profit  methods  than  in  the  case  of  traditional  transaction  methods  (see  in 
particular  paragraph  2.75).  This  however  does  not  mean  that  the  question 
of  comparability  in  characteristics  of  property  or  services  can  be  ignored 
when applying transactional profit methods, because it may be that product 
differences entail or reflect different functions performed, assets used and/or 
risks assumed by the tested party. See paragraphs 3.18-3.19 for a discussion 
of the notion of tested party.

In  practice,  it  has  been  observed  that  comparability  analyses  for 
1.129. 
methods based on gross or net profit indicators often put more emphasis on 
functional similarities than on product similarities. Depending on the facts 
and circumstances of the case, it may be acceptable to broaden the scope of 
the  comparability  analysis  to  include  uncontrolled  transactions  involving 
products  that  are  different,  but  where  similar  functions  are  undertaken. 
However, the acceptance of such an approach depends on the effects that the 
product differences have on the reliability of the comparison and on whether 
or  not  more  reliable  data  are  available. 