 require a Constituent Entity, the 
minority interests of which are held by unrelated parties, to be fully consolidated, 100 percent of the entity’s 
revenue should be included for the purpose of applying the 750 million Euro threshold (or near equivalent 
amount in local currency as of January 2015). In such a case, the entity’s financial data that is included in 
the CbC report should represent the full 100 percent amount and should not be pro-rated. In contrast, if 
the  accounting  rules  require  proportionate  consolidation  in  the  presence  of  minority  interests,  then  the 
jurisdiction may allow the entity's revenue to be pro-rated for the purpose of applying the 750 million Euro 
threshold and may also allow its financial data that is included in the CbC report to be pro-rated. 

Where the financial data of a Constituent Entity is reported on a pro-rata basis, the number of employees 
of the Constituent Entity should also be reported on a pro-rata basis. Where this is the case, the taxpayer 
should  insert  the  following  statement  in  Table  3  of  the  CbC  Report:  "The  number  of  employees  of  the 
Constituent Entity A (specified) in Jurisdiction X (specified) is reported on a pro-rata basis in accordance 
with the pro-rata reporting of the financial data of A". Inclusive Framework members are encouraged to 
require their taxpayers to provide the above information in Table 3 as soon as possible, taking into account 
the specific domestic circumstances. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
20 |   

Treatment of an entity owned and/or operated by more than one unrelated MNE 
Groups (July 2017) 

5.1 Where an entity owned and/or operated by more than one unrelated MNE Groups 
(e.g. a joint venture entity) is consolidated in the consolidated financial statements of 
one or more of these MNE Groups, including under a pro rata consolidation rule, is such 
an entity considered a Constituent Entity of those unrelated MNE Groups (i.e. should it 
be included in Table 2)? If so, where a pro rata consolidation rule is applied to the entity 
under the applicable accounting rules, should Table 1 include the pro rata data of the 
entity, and should the entity's revenue be included pro rata for the purpose of applying 
the 750 million Euro threshold?  

The treatment of an entity for CbC reporting purposes should follow the accounting treatment. In the case 
of an entity which is owned and/or operated by more than one unrelated MNE Groups, the treatment of 
the entity for CbC reporting purposes should be determined under the accounting rules applicable to each 
of  the  unrelated  MNE  Groups  separately.  If  the  applicable  accounting  rules  require  an  entity  to  be 
consolidated into the consolidated financial statements of an MNE Group, the entity would be considered 
as a Constituent Entity of that group under Article 1.4 of the Model Legislation. Accordingly, the financial 
data of such an entity should be reported in the CbC report of the MNE Group. This applies to entities 
included in the MNE Group's consolidated financial statements using either full consolidation or pro rata 
consolidation. If an entity is not required to be consolidated under applicable accounting rules, the entity 
would not be considered a Constituent Entity and, accordingly, the financial data of such an entity would 
not be reported in the CbC Report. Therefore an entity included in the MNE Group's consolidated financial 
statements under equity accounting rules would not be a constituent entity. 

Where pro rata consolidation is applied to an entity in an MNE Group in preparing the group's consolidated 
financial statements, jurisdictions may allow a pro rata share of the entity’s total revenue to be taken into 
account for the purpose of applying the 750 million Euro threshold, instead of the full amount of the entity's 
total revenue. Jurisdictions may also allow an MNE group to include a pro rata share of the entity's financial 
data  in  its  CbC  report,  in  line  with  the  information  included  in  the  MNE  Group’s  consolidated  financial 
statements, instead of the full amount of this financial data.  

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
  | 21 

Deemed listing provision (November 2017, November 2019) 

6.1 What is the purpose of the deemed listing provision in the definition of the term 
"Group" in Article 1.1 of the Model Legislation?  

The deemed listing provision in the definition of the term "Group" in Article 1.1 of the Model Legislation is 
only  relevant  where  an  enterprise  would  otherwise  be  the  UPE,  but  it  is  not  required  to  prepare 
Consolidated Financial Statements in the jurisdiction where it is a resident for tax purposes. In this case, 
the Group includes all entities that would be included in the Consolidated Financial Statements that the 
rel