ship as supplier to the foreign associated enterprise 
that carries on an activity previously carried on by the taxpayer, the taxpayer 
and  the  foreign  associated  enterprise  have  the  opportunity  to  obtain 
economic  and  commercial  benefits  through  that  relationship  (e.g.  the  sale 
price of goods) which may explain for instance why compensation through 
an  up-front  capital  payment  for  transfer  of  the  business  was  foregone,  or 
why  the  future  transfer  price  for  the  products  might  be  different  from  the 
prices  that  would  have  been  agreed  absent  a  restructuring  operation.  In 
practice,  however,  it  might  be  difficult  to  structure  and  monitor  such  an 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 397

arrangement. While taxpayers are free to choose the form of compensation 
payments, whether up-front or over time, tax administrations when reviewing 
such  arrangements  would  want  to  know  how  the  compensation  for  the 
post-restructuring  activity  was  possibly  affected  to  take  account  of  the 
foregone  compensation,  if  any,  for  the  restructuring  itself.  Specifically,  in 
such a case, the tax administration would want to look at the entirety of the 
arrangements, while being provided with a separate evaluation of the arm’s 
length  compensation  for  the  restructuring  and  for  the  post-restructuring 
transactions.

D. Comparing the pre- and post-restructuring situations

9.117.  A relevant question is the role if any of comparisons that can be made 
of the profits actually earned by a party to a controlled transaction prior to 
and after the restructuring. In particular, it can be asked whether it would be 
appropriate to determine a restructured entity’s post-restructuring profits by 
reference  to  its  pre-restructuring  profits,  adjusted  to  reflect  the  transfer  or 
relinquishment of particular functions, assets and risks.5

9.118.  One important issue with such before-and-after comparisons is that a 
comparison of the profits from the post-restructuring controlled transactions 
with  the  profits  made  in  controlled  transactions  prior  to  the  restructuring 
would  not  suffice  given  Article  9  of  the  OECD  Model  Tax  Convention 
provides  for  a  comparison  to  be  made  with  uncontrolled  transactions. 
Comparisons  of  a  taxpayer’s  controlled  transactions  with  other  controlled 
transactions are irrelevant to the application of the arm’s length principle and 
therefore should not be used by a tax administration as the basis for a transfer 
pricing adjustment or by a taxpayer to support its transfer pricing policy.

9.119.  Another issue with before-and-after comparisons is the likely difficulty 
of  valuing  the  basket  of  functions,  assets  and  risks  that  were  lost  by  the 
restructured entity, keeping in mind that it is not always the case that these 
functions, assets and risks are transferred to another party.

9.120.  That being said, in business restructurings, before-and-after comparisons 
could play a role in understanding the restructuring itself and could be part of 
a before-and-after comparability (including functional) analysis to understand 
the  changes  that  accounted  for  the  changes  in  the  allocation  of  profit/loss 
amongst the parties. In effect, information on the arrangements that existed 
prior  to  the  restructuring  and  on  the  conditions  of  the  restructuring  itself 
could be essential to understand the context in which the post-restructuring 
arrangements were put in place and to assess whether such arrangements are 

5. 

This is a different question from the one of profit potential that is discussed in 
Part I of this chapter.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

398 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

arm’s length. It can also shed light on the options realistically available to the 
restructured entity.6

9.121.  The analysis of the business before and after the restructuring may 
reveal  that  while  some  functions,  assets  and  risks  were  transferred,  other 
functions  may  still  be  carried  out  by  the  “stripped”  entity.  Typically,  as 
part  of  the  restructuring  the  entity  may  have  been  purportedly  stripped  of 
intangibles or risk, but after the restructuring it continues to carry out some 
or all of the functions it previously performed. Following the restructuring, 
however,  the  “stripped”  entity  performs  those  functions  under  contract 
to  a  foreign  associated  enterprise.  The  accurate  delineation  of  the  actual 
transaction  between  the  foreign  associated  enterprise  and  the  “stripped” 
entity will determine the actual commercial or financial relations between 
them, including whether the contractual terms are consistent with the conduct 
of the parties and other facts of the case. Arm’s length compensation for each 
party should be consistent w