 comparable circumstances, an independent party would 
not  have  had  any  option  realistically  available  that  would  be  clearly  more 
attractive to it than to accept the conditions of the termination or substantial 
renegotiation of the contract. The guidance in Section D of Chapter I, as well 
as the Guidance in Section B of this Part, are applicable.

9.85.  Another  aspect  that  may  be  necessary  to  examine  in  assessing 
whether the conditions of an arrangement in relation to an indemnification 
clause are arm’s length, is the remuneration of the transactions that are the 
object  of  the  arrangement  and  the  financial  conditions  of  the  termination 
thereof,  as  both  can  be  inter-related.  In  effect,  the  terms  of  a  termination 
clause (or the absence thereof) may be a significant element of the functional 
analysis  of  the  transactions  and  specifically  of  the  analysis  of  the  risks 
of  the  parties,  and  may  accordingly  need  to  be  taken  into  account  in  the 
determination of an arm’s length remuneration for the transactions. Similarly, 
the remuneration of the transactions will affect the determination of whether 
the conditions of the termination of the arrangement are at arm’s length.

9.86.  Business  restructurings  may  lead  to  the  termination  of  the 
employment  contracts  of  members  of  an  assembled  workforce.  In  this 
regard,  in  determining  whether  the  restructuring  is  undertaken  on  arm’s 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 387

length terms, the analysis should consider the facts and circumstances before 
and  after  the  restructuring  related  to  the  assembled  workforce,  including 
whether  something  of  value  has  been  transferred  upon  termination  of  the 
arrangements  between  associated  enterprises  and,  for  example,  whether 
there are implicit or explicit restrictive covenants (e.g. non-compete clause) 
in  the  employment  contracts  of  the  workforce  members,  which  should  be 
reflected  in  the  amount  of  any  indemnification  that  should  be  paid  to  the 
party previously undertaking the activities through that workforce.

9.87.  One circumstance that deserves particular attention, is the situation 
where the now-terminated contract required one party to make a significant 
investment  for  which  an  arm’s  length  return  might  only  be  reasonably 
expected  if  the  contract  was  maintained  for  an  extended  period  of  time. 
This created a financial risk for the party making the investment in case the 
contract was terminated before the end of such period of time. The degree of 
the risk would depend on whether the investment was highly specialised or 
could be used (possibly subject to some adaptations) for other clients. Where 
the risk was material, it would have been reasonable for independent parties 
in  comparable  circumstances  to  take  it  into  account  when  negotiating  the 
contract.

9.88.  An  example  would  be  where  a  manufacturing  contract  between 
associated enterprises requires the manufacturer to invest in a new manufacturing 
unit.  Assume  an  arm’s  length  return  on  the  investment  can  reasonably  be 
anticipated by the manufacturer at the time the contract is concluded, subject to 
the manufacturing contract lasting for at least five years, for the manufacturing 
activity to produce at least × units per year, and for the remuneration of the 
manufacturing  activity  to  be  calculated  on  a  basis  (e.g.  USD/unit)  that  is 
expected to generate an arm’s length return on the total investment in the new 
manufacturing unit. Assume that after three years, the associated enterprise 
terminates the contract in accordance with its terms in the context of a group-
wide restructuring of the manufacturing operations. Assume the manufacturing 
unit is highly specialised and the manufacturer further to the termination would 
have no other choice than to write off the assets.

9.89.  At arm’s length, the manufacturer may mitigate the risks inherent in 
the investment by:

• 

Including  in  the  contract  an  appropriate  indemnification  clause  or 
penalties in case of early termination, or an option for the party making 
the investment to transfer it at a given price to the other party in case the 
investment becomes useless to the former due to the early termination 
of the contract by the latter.

•  Factoring the risk linked with the possible termination of the contract 
into the determination of the remuneration of the activities covered 
by the contract (e.g. by factoring the risk into the determination of 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

388 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

the remuneration of the manufacturing activities where third party 
comparables that bear comparable risks can be identified, perhaps by 
including front-end loaded fee structures). In such a case the part