tes utilised in the valuation model.

6.171.  There  is  no  single  measure  for  a  discount  rate  that  is  appropriate 
for  transfer  pricing  purposes  in  all  instances.  Neither  taxpayers  nor  tax 
administrations  should  assume  that  a  discount  rate  that  is  based  on  a 
Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) approach or any other measure 
should always be used in transfer pricing analyses where determination of 
appropriate discount rates is important. Instead the specific conditions and 
risks associated with the facts of a given case and the particular cash flows 
in question should be evaluated in determining the appropriate discount rate.

6.172.  It should be recognised in determining and evaluating discount rates 
that  in  some  instances,  particularly  those  associated  with  the  valuation  of 
intangibles  still  in  development,  intangibles  may  be  among  the  most  risky 
components of a taxpayer’s business. It should also be recognised that some 
businesses are inherently more risky than others and some cash flow streams 
are inherently more volatile than others. For example, the likelihood that a 
projected level of research and development expense will be incurred may be 
higher than the likelihood that a projected level of revenues will ultimately 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 299

be generated. The discount rate or rates should reflect the level of risk in the 
overall  business  and  the  expected  volatility  of  the  various  projected  cash 
flows under the circumstances of each individual case.

6.173.  Since  certain  risks  can  be  taken  into  account  either  in  arriving  at 
financial projections or in calculating the discount rate, care should be taken 
to avoid double discounting for risk.

D.2.6.4.4. Useful life of intangibles and terminal values

6.174.  Valuation  techniques  are  often  premised  on  the  projection  of  cash 
flows derived from the exploitation of the intangible over the useful life of the 
intangible in question. In such circumstances, the determination of the actual 
useful life of the intangible will be one of the critical assumptions supporting 
the valuation model.

6.175.  The  projected  useful  life  of  particular  intangibles  is  a  question  to 
be  determined  on  the  basis  of  all  of  the  relevant  facts  and  circumstances. 
The useful life of a particular intangible can be affected by the nature and 
duration of the legal protections afforded the intangible. The useful life of 
intangibles also may be affected by the rate of technological change in the 
industry, and by other factors affecting competition in the relevant economic 
environment. See paragraphs 6.121 and 6.122.

6.176. 
In some circumstances, particular intangibles may contribute to the 
generation of cash flow in years after the legal protections have expired or 
the  products  to  which  they  specifically  relate  have  ceased  to  be  marketed. 
This can be the case in situations where one generation of intangibles forms 
the  base  for  the  development  of  future  generations  of  intangibles  and  new 
products.  It  may  well  be  that  some  portion  of  continuing  cash  flows  from 
projected  new  products  should  properly  be  attributed  to  otherwise  expired 
intangibles where such follow on effects exist. It should be recognised that, 
while  some  intangibles  have  an  indeterminate  useful  life  at  the  time  of 
valuation, that fact does not imply that non-routine returns are attributable to 
such intangibles in perpetuity.

6.177. 
In  this  regard,  where  specific  intangibles  contribute  to  continuing 
cash  flows  beyond  the  period  for  which  reasonable  financial  projections 
exist, it will sometimes be the case that a terminal value for the intangible 
related cash flows is calculated. Where terminal values are used in valuation 
calculations, the assumptions underlying their calculation should be clearly 
set out and the underlying assumptions thoroughly examined, particularly the 
assumed growth rates.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

300 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

D.2.6.4.5. Assumptions regarding taxes

6.178.  Where  the  purpose  of  the  valuation  technique  is  to  isolate  the 
projected  cash  flows  associated  with  an  intangible,  it  may  be  necessary  to 
evaluate  and  quantify  the  effect  of  projected  future  income  taxes  on  the 
projected cash flows. Tax effects to be considered include: (i) taxes projected 
to be imposed on future cash flows, (ii) tax amortisation benefits projected to 
be available to the transferee, if any, and (iii) taxes projected to be imposed on 
the transferor as a result of the transfer, if any.

D.2.7. Form of payment

6.179.  Taxpayers have substantial discretion in defining the form of payment 
for  transferred  intangibles.  In  transactions  between  independent  parties, 
it  is  common  to