to  make  its  recoveries.  The  effect  of  a  cross-guarantee  from  a  borrower’s 
perspective  is  that  it  now  has  multiple  guarantees  on  its  borrowings  and 
may stand as guarantor for multiple borrowings itself. This can give rise to 
questions on how to evaluate each guarantee. Not only is this complex from 
the  perspective  of  potentially  large  numbers  of  guarantees  to  be  evaluated 
but also because each party providing a guarantee may in turn be guaranteed 
by the party for whom it is now acting as guarantor. Evaluating the effect 
of  a  cross-guarantee  arrangement  is  difficult  and  as  the  number  of  parties 
involved  increases,  may  be  practically  impossible.  It  may  not  be  possible 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 437

to determine the effect of the guarantee between any two parties where the 
same  risk  is  subject  to  multiple  guarantees.  An  analysis  of  the  facts  may 
lead to the conclusion that such an arrangement does not enhance the credit 
standing of an MNE group member beyond the level of passive association, 
in which case any support in the event of default from another MNE group 
member should then be regarded as a capital contribution.

D.1.3. Financial capacity of the guarantor

10.166.  The examination of financial guarantees under accurate delineation 
needs  also  to  consider  the  financial  capacity  of  the  guarantor  to  fulfill  its 
obligations  in  case  of  default  of  the  borrower.  This  requires  an  evaluation 
of  the  credit  rating  of  the  guarantor  and  the  borrower,  and  of  the  business 
correlations between them.

10.167.  A lender would benefit from the stronger credit rating of the guarantor 
(compared to the borrower’s credit rating) and/or the guarantor’s asset pool 
(in addition to the borrower’s asset pool), and the borrower accordingly may 
expect a benefit in the form of a lower interest rate. Thus, based on facts and 
circumstances,  a  guarantee  may  provide  a  benefit  to  the  borrower  that  has 
the same or higher credit rating as the guarantor, if the guarantee effectively 
allows the lender to access wider recourse and, therefore, reduces the interest 
rate despite the guarantor not having a higher credit rating. In determining the 
credit rating of the guarantor and the borrower, the effect of implicit support 
must be considered as explained in Section C.1.1.

10.168.  Likewise, the financial capacity of the guarantor to meet its obligations 
requires an analysis of the correlation between the guarantor’s and borrower’s 
businesses.  In  situations  where  the  guarantor  and  the  borrower  operate 
under  similar  market  conditions,  an  adverse  market  event  that  affects  the 
performance of the borrower and increases its risk of default might also affect 
the guarantor and its capacity to fulfill its obligations.

D.2. Determining the arm’s length price of guarantees

10.169.  This  section  describes  a  number  of  pricing  approaches  for  those 
circumstances where a guarantee is found to be appropriate. However, when 
the accurate delineation of the actual transaction indicates that the purported 
guarantee is not a guarantee, other pricing approaches should be considered, 
in particular the guidance in Chapter VII. As in any other transfer pricing 
situation, the selection of the most appropriate method should be consistent 
with the actual transaction as accurately delineated, in particular, through a 
functional analysis. (See Chapter II).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

438 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

D.2.1. CUP method

10.170.  The CUP method could be used where there are external or internal 
comparables;  independent  guarantors  providing  guarantees  in  respect  of 
comparable loans to other borrowers or where the same borrower has other 
comparable loans which are independently guaranteed.

10.171.  In  considering  whether  controlled  and  uncontrolled  transactions 
are  comparable,  regard  should  be  had  to  all  the  factors  which  may  affect 
the  guarantee  fee  including:  the  risk  profile  of  the  borrower,  terms  and 
conditions  of  the  guarantee,  term  and  conditions  of  the  underlying  loan 
(amount, currency, maturity, seniority etc.), credit rating differential between 
guarantor  and  guaranteed  party,  market  conditions,  etc.  When  available, 
uncontrolled guarantees are the most reliable comparable to determine arm’s 
length guarantee fees.

10.172.  The difficulty with using the CUP method is that publicly available 
information  about  a  sufficiently  similar  credit  enhancing  guarantee  is 
unlikely  to  be  found  between  unrelated  parties  given  that  unrelated  party 
guarantees of bank loans are uncommon.

10.173.  An independent entity providing a financial guarantee would expect 
to  receive  a  fee  to  compensate  it  for  the  risk  it  is