nterprises to document their decisions and intentions regarding the allocation of 
significant rights in intangibles. Documentation of such decisions and intentions, 
including written agreements, should generally be in place at or before the time 
that associated enterprises enter into transactions leading to the development, 
enhancement, maintenance, protection, or exploitation of intangibles.

6.37.  The  right  to  use  some  types  of  intangibles  may  be  protected  under 
specific intellectual property laws and registration systems. Patents, trademarks 
and copyrights are examples of such intangibles. Generally, the registered legal 
owner of such intangibles has the exclusive legal and commercial right to use 
the intangible, as well as the right to prevent others from using or otherwise 
infringing the intangible. These rights may be granted for a specific geographic 
area and/or for a specific period of time.

6.38.  There  are  also  intangibles  that  are  not  protectable  under  specific 
intellectual  property  registration  systems,  but  that  are  protected  against 
unauthorised appropriation or imitation under unfair competition legislation 
or other enforceable laws, or by contract. Trade dress, trade secrets, and know-
how may fall under this category of intangibles.

6.39.  The  extent  and  nature  of  the  available  protection  under  applicable 
law  may  vary  from  jurisdiction  to  jurisdiction,  as  may  the  conditions  on 
which  such  protection  is  provided.  Such  differences  can  arise  either  from 
differences  in  substantive  intellectual  property  law  between  jurisdictions, 
or  from  practical  differences  in  local  enforcement  of  such  laws.  For 
example,  the  availability  of  legal  protection  for  some  intangibles  may  be 
subject to conditions such as continued commercial use of the intangible or 
timely  renewal  of  registrations.  This  means  that  in  some  circumstances  or 
jurisdictions,  the  degree  of  protection  for  an  intangible  may  be  extremely 
limited either legally or in practice.

6.40.  The legal owner will be considered to be the owner of the intangible 
for transfer pricing purposes. If no legal owner of the intangible is identified 
under  applicable  law  or  governing  contracts,  then  the  member  of  the 
MNE group that, based on the facts and circumstances, controls decisions 
concerning the exploitation of the intangible and has the practical capacity to 
restrict others from using the intangible will be considered the legal owner of 
the intangible for transfer pricing purposes.

In identifying the legal owner of intangibles, an intangible and any 
6.41. 
licence relating to that intangible are considered to be different intangibles for 
transfer pricing purposes, each having a different owner. See paragraph 6.26. 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 259

For  example,  Company  A,  the  legal  owner  of  a  trademark,  may  provide  an 
exclusive licence to Company B to manufacture, market, and sell goods using 
the trademark. One intangible, the trademark, is legally owned by Company A. 
Another  intangible,  the  licence  to  use  the  trademark  in  connection  with 
manufacturing, marketing and distribution of trademarked products, is legally 
owned by Company B. Depending on the facts and circumstances, marketing 
activities  undertaken  by  Company  B  pursuant  to  its  licence  may  potentially 
affect the value of the underlying intangible legally owned by Company A, the 
value of Company B’s licence, or both.

6.42.  While determining legal ownership and contractual arrangements is 
an important first step in the analysis, these determinations are separate and 
distinct from the question of remuneration under the arm’s length principle. 
For transfer pricing purposes, legal ownership of intangibles, by itself, does 
not confer any right ultimately to retain returns derived by the MNE group 
from exploiting the intangible, even though such returns may initially accrue 
to the legal owner as a result of its legal or contractual right to exploit the 
intangible. The return ultimately retained by or attributed to the legal owner 
depends  upon  the  functions  it  performs,  the  assets  it  uses,  and  the  risks  it 
assumes, and upon the contributions made by other  MNE group members 
through  their  functions  performed,  assets  used,  and  risks  assumed.  For 
example, in the case of an internally developed intangible, if the legal owner 
performs  no  relevant  functions,  uses  no  relevant  assets,  and  assumes  no 
relevant risks, but acts solely as a title holding entity, the legal owner will not 
ultimately be entitled to any portion of the return derived by the MNE group 
from the exploitation of the intangible other than arm’s length compensation, 
if any, for holding title.
6.43.  Legal  ownership  and  contractual  relationships  serve  simply  as