ax  purposes  in 
accordance with the arm’s length principle, based upon information reasonably available 
at  the  time  of  the  transaction.  Thus,  a  taxpayer  ordinarily  should  give  consideration  to 
whether its transfer pricing is appropriate for tax purposes before the pricing is established 
and should confirm the arm’s length nature of its financial results at the time of filing its 
tax return.

28.  Taxpayers should not be expected to incur disproportionately high costs and burdens 
in producing documentation. Therefore, tax administrations should balance requests for 
documentation  against  the  expected  cost  and  administrative  burden  to  the  taxpayer  of 
creating  it.  where  a  taxpayer  reasonably  demonstrates,  having  regard  to  the  principles 
of these Guidelines, that either no comparable data exists or that the cost of locating the 
comparable  data  would  be  disproportionately  high  relative  to  the  amounts  at  issue,  the 
taxpayer should not be required to incur costs in searching for such data.

D.2. Time frame

29.  Practices regarding the timing of the preparation of the documentation differ among 
countries. Some countries require information to be finalised by the time the tax return is 
filed. Others require documentation to be in place by the time the audit commences. There 
is also a variety in practice regarding the amount of time given to taxpayers to respond to 
specific tax administration requests for documentation and other audit related information 
requests. These differences in the time requirements for providing information can add to 
taxpayers’ difficulties in setting priorities and in providing the right information to the tax 
administrations at the right time.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

 ChAPTER v OF ThE TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES ON DOCUMENTATION – 17

30.  The best practice is to require that the local file be finalised no later than the due 
date for the filing of the tax return for the fiscal year in question. The master file should 
be reviewed and, if necessary, updated by the tax return due date for the ultimate parent of 
the MNE group. In countries pursuing policies of auditing transactions as they occur under 
co-operative compliance programmes, it may be necessary for certain information to be 
provided in advance of the filing of the tax return.

31.  with regard to the Country-by-Country Report, it is recognised that in some instances 
final statutory financial statements and other financial information that may be relevant 
for the country-by-country data described in Annex III may not be finalised until after 
the  due  date  for  tax  returns  in  some  countries  for  a  given  fiscal  year.  Under  the  given 
circumstances,  the  date  for  completion  of  the  Country-by-Country  Report  described  in 
Annex III to Chapter v of these Guidelines may be extended to one year following the last 
day of the fiscal year of the ultimate parent of the MNE group.

D.3. Materiality

32.  Not  all  transactions  that  occur  between  associated  enterprises  are  sufficiently 
material to require full documentation in the local file. Tax administrations have an interest 
in seeing the most important information while at the same time they also have an interest 
in seeing that MNEs are not so overwhelmed with compliance demands that they fail to 
consider and document the most important items. Thus, individual country transfer pricing 
documentation requirements based on Annex II to Chapter v of these Guidelines should 
include  specific  materiality  thresholds  that  take  into  account  the  size  and  the  nature  of 
the local economy, the importance of the MNE group in that economy, and the size and 
nature of local operating entities, in addition to the overall size and nature of the MNE 
group. Measures of materiality may be considered in relative terms (e.g. transactions not 
exceeding a percentage of revenue or a percentage of cost measure) or in absolute amount 
terms (e.g. transactions not exceeding a certain fixed amount). Individual countries should 
establish their own materiality standards for local file purposes, based on local conditions. 
The materiality standards should be objective standards that are commonly understood and 
accepted in commercial practice. See paragraph 18 for the materiality standards applicable 
in completing the master file.

33.  A  number  of  countries  have  introduced  in  their  transfer  pricing  documentation 
rules simplification measures which exempt small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) 
from  transfer  pricing  documentation  requirements  or  limit  the  information  required  to 
be provided by such enterprises. In order not to impose on taxpayers costs and burdens 
disproportionate to the circumstances, it is recommended to not require SMEs to produce 
the  amount  of  documentation  that  might  be  expected  from  large