y 
making the investment consciously accepts the risk and is rewarded 
for it; no separate indemnification for the termination of the contract 
seems necessary.

9.90.  As  a  general  matter,  mitigation  of  risk  inherent  in  the  investment 
by a manufacturer is relevant to consider only if the manufacturer assumes 
the  risk.  In  practice,  the  investment  by  an  associated  enterprise  in  a 
manufacturing  plant  where  that  enterprise  is  wholly  dependent  on  another 
associated enterprise for the capability to generate returns is likely to require 
careful scrutiny in relation to the identification of risks and how those risks 
are controlled. As explained in Example 2 in paragraphs 1.84 and 1.102 where 
significant risks associated with generating a return from the manufacturing 
activities are controlled solely by another party (which also has the financial 
capacity to bear that risk), then that other party is allocated the upside and 
downside  consequences  of  those  risks,  including  under-utilisation,  write-
down,  and  closure  costs.  In  that  case,  the  manufacturer  should  not  suffer 
the financial consequences of an early termination, as it did not control the 
economically significant risks that contributed to the closure, and in such a 
case the manufacturer would also not be expected to mitigate risks it did not 
in fact assume.

9.91.  A similar issue may arise in the case where a party has undertaken 
development  efforts  resulting  in  losses  or  low  returns  in  the  early  period 
and above-normal returns are expected in periods following the termination 
of  the  contract.  In  such  a  case,  it  will  be  necessary  to  analyse  the  actual 
arrangements  very  carefully  to  determine  whether  the  party  in  substance 
takes a stake in the results of the development efforts or has merely accepted 
deferred  payment  terms.  In  performing  the  analysis  the  guidance  relating 
to  control  over  risk  in  Section  D.1.2.1  of  Chapter  I  will  be  relevant.  If  the 
party  does  control  the  risks,  it  might  be  expected  that  the  party  would 
seek  to  protect  itself  from  the  risk  of  non-recovery  through  penalty  or 
indemnification terms. If the party did not control the risks of non-recovery, 
then the terms are unlikely to be arm’s length.

9.92. 
In the case where the conditions made or imposed between associated 
enterprises  with  respect  to  the  termination,  non-renewal  or  substantial 
renegotiation of their existing arrangements differ from the conditions that 
would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits that would, 
but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason 
of those conditions, have not so accrued, may be included in the profits of 
that enterprise and taxed accordingly.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 389

F.3.  Which party should ultimately bear the costs related to the 

indemnification of the party that suffers from the termination 
or re-negotiation of the agreement

9.93.  The  transfer  pricing  analysis  of  the  arm’s  length  nature  of  the 
conditions  of  the  termination  or  substantial  renegotiation  of  an  agreement 
should  take  account  of  both  the  perspectives  of  the  transferor  and  of  the 
transferee. Taking account of the transferee’s perspective is important both to 
value the amount of an arm’s length indemnification, if any, and to determine 
what party should bear it. It is not possible to derive a single answer for all 
cases and the response should be based on an examination of the facts and 
circumstances of the case, and in particular of the rights and other assets of 
the parties, of the risks assumed by the parties, of the economic rationale for 
the termination, of the determination of what party(ies) is (are) expected to 
benefit from it, and of the options realistically available to the parties. This 
can be illustrated as follows.

9.94.  Assume a manufacturing contract between two associated enterprises, 
entity  A  and  entity  B,  is  terminated  by  A  (B  being  the  manufacturer). 
Assume  A  decides  to  use  another  associated  manufacturer,  entity  C,  to 
continue the manufacturing that was previously performed by B. As noted in 
paragraph 9.78, there should be no presumption that all contract terminations 
or  substantial  renegotiations  should  give  a  right  to  indemnification  at 
arm’s  length.  Assume  that  it  is  determined,  based  on  the  guidance  in  this 
section, that in the circumstances of the case at arm’s length, B would be in 
a  position  to  claim  an  indemnification  for  the  detriment  suffered  from  the 
termination. The question arises as to which party should ultimately bear the 
indemnification to be paid to B: A (i.e. the party terminating the contract), C 
(i.e. the party taking over the manufacturing activity previo