tra-
group services. However, some guidance may be given to elucidate how the 
analysis would be applied for some common types of services undertaken in 
MNE groups.

7.8. 
Some  intra-group  services  are  performed  by  one  member  of  an 
MNE  group  to  meet  an  identified  need  of  one  or  more  specific  members 
of  the  group.  In  such  a  case,  it  is  relatively  straightforward  to  determine 
whether a service has been provided. Ordinarily an independent enterprise 
in comparable circumstances would have satisfied the identified need either 
by performing the activity in-house or by having the activity performed by a 
third party. Thus, in such a case, an intra-group service ordinarily would be 
found to exist. For example, an intra-group service would normally be found 
where  an  associated  enterprise  repairs  equipment  used  in  manufacturing 
by another member of the MNE group. It is essential, however, that reliable 
documentation is provided to the tax administrations to verify that the costs 
have been incurred by the service provider.

B.1.2. Shareholder activities

7.9. 
A more complex analysis is necessary where an associated enterprise 
undertakes  activities  that  relate  to  more  than  one  member  of  the  group  or 
to  the  group  as  a  whole.  In  a  narrow  range  of  such  cases,  an  intra-group 
activity  may  be  performed  relating  to  group  members  even  though  those 
group members do not need the activity (and would not be willing to pay for 
it were they independent enterprises). Such an activity would be one that a 
group member (usually the parent company or a regional holding company) 
performs solely because of its ownership interest in one or more other group 
members, i.e. in its capacity as shareholder. This type of activity would not be 
considered to be an intra-group service, and thus would not justify a charge to 
other group members. Instead, the costs associated with this type of activity 
should be borne and allocated at the level of the shareholder. This  type  of 
activity may be referred to as a “shareholder activity”, distinguishable from 
the broader term “stewardship activity” used in the 1979 Report. Stewardship 
activities  covered  a  range  of  activities  by  a  shareholder  that  may  include 
the provision of services to other group members, for example services that 
would  be  provided  by  a  co-ordinating  centre.  These  latter  types  of  non-
shareholder activities could include detailed planning services for particular 
operations, emergency management or technical advice (trouble shooting), or 
in some cases assistance in day-to-day management.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

316 – CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES

7.10.  The  following  are  examples  of  costs  associated  with  shareholder 
activities, under the standard set forth in paragraph 7.6:

a)  Costs  relating  to  the  juridical  structure  of  the  parent  company 
itself, such as meetings of shareholders of the parent, issuing of 
shares in the parent company, stock exchange listing of the parent 
company and costs of the supervisory board;

b)  Costs relating to reporting requirements (including financial reporting 
and  audit)  of  the  parent  company  including  the  consolidation 
of  reports,  costs  relating  to  the  parent  company’s  audit  of  the 
subsidiary’s accounts carried out exclusively in the interest of the 
parent company, and costs relating to the preparation of consolidated 
financial  statements  of  the  MNE  (however,  in  practice  costs 
incurred locally by the subsidiaries may not need to be passed on to 
the parent or holding company where it is disproportionately onerous 
to identify and isolate those costs);

c)  Costs  of  raising  funds  for  the  acquisition  of  its  participations 
and  costs  relating  to  the  parent  company’s  investor  relations 
such as communication strategy with shareholders of the parent 
company, financial analysts, funds and other stakeholders in the 
parent company;

d)  Costs  relating  to  compliance  of  the  parent  company  with  the 

relevant tax laws;

e)  Costs  which  are  ancillary  to  the  corporate  governance  of  the 

MNE as a whole.

In contrast, if for example a parent company raises funds on behalf of 
another group member which uses them to acquire a new company, the parent 
company  would  generally  be  regarded  as  providing  a  service  to  the  group 
member. The 1984 Report also mentioned “costs of managerial and control 
(monitoring)  activities  related  to  the  management  and  protection  of  the 
investment as such in participations”. Whether these activities fall within the 
definition of shareholder activities as defined in these Guidelines would be 
determined according to whether under comparable facts and circumstances 
the activity is one that an independent enterprise would have been willing 
to pay for or to perform for itself. Whe