 laws in place to require CbC reporting (even if filing of a CbC report for the Reporting 
Fiscal Year in question is not required under those laws); and  

3.  by the first filing deadline of the CbC report, a Qualifying Competent Authority Agreement must 
be in effect between the jurisdiction of tax residence of the UPE and the Local Jurisdiction;2 and  

4. 

5. 

the  jurisdiction  of  tax  residence  of  the  UPE  has  not  notified  the  Local  Jurisdiction’s  tax 
administration of a Systemic Failure; and  
the following notifications have been provided:3  
‒ 

the jurisdiction of tax residence of the UPE has been notified by the UPE, no later than [the 
last day of the Reporting Fiscal Year of such MNE Group]; and 

‒ 

the Local Jurisdiction’s tax administration has been notified by a Constituent Entity of the 
MNE Group that is resident for tax purposes in the Local Jurisdiction that it is not the UPE 
nor the SPE, stating the identity and tax residence of the Reporting Entity, no later than [the 
last day of the Reporting Fiscal Year of such MNE Group].  

The jurisdictions which have confirmed they will have parent surrogate filing available consistent with the 
framework  outlined  above  for  UPE  that  are  resident  in  their  jurisdiction,  with  respect  to  fiscal  periods 
commencing on or from 1 January 2016, are listed here: www.oecd.org/tax/automatic-exchange/country-
specific-information-on-country-by-country-reporting-implementation.htm. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
  | 37 

CbC reporting notification requirements for MNE Groups during transitional 
phase (December 2016) 

2.1 Article 3 of the Action 13 model legislation for CbC reporting includes an option for 
jurisdictions to require notifications to be sent to the country tax administration 
identifying the Reporting Entity for the MNE Group. Where a Constituent Entity of an 
MNE Group is required to notify its tax administration of the identity and tax residence of 
the Reporting Entity (including the Surrogate Parent Entity) of the MNE Group by 31 
December 2016 (with respect to the 2016 fiscal year), would it be consistent with the 
Action 13 minimum standard for jurisdictions to provide some transitional relief during 
the period in which domestic CbC legal frameworks and Qualifying Competent Authority 
Agreements are still being put in place?  

A  practical  issue  may  arise  for  a  number  of  MNE  Groups  around  the  world  which  are  currently  in  the 
process of identifying the reporting entity and considering whether to proceed with surrogate filing where 
local  filing  obligations  would  otherwise  be  applicable.  This  issue  relates  to  the  domestic  notification 
requirements that Constituent Entities of MNE Groups may be subject to, requiring them to inform their tax 
administration about the identity of the Reporting Entity that will be filing the CbC report. In a number of 
cases these notifications will need to be submitted by 31 December 2016 with respect to the 2016 fiscal 
year.  

However, the identity of the appropriate reporting entity may not be known by that time. This is because 
the identity of the reporting entity will depend on the domestic CbC legal frameworks and the international 
exchange of information relationships that are formed through QCAAs. Domestic legal frameworks are still 
being  finalised,  and  Qualifying  Competent  Authority  Agreements  may  not  be  in  place  by  31  December 
2016. 

MNE Groups that are seeking to comply with their legal obligations to provide notifications, where such 
obligations exist, therefore face a practical difficulty in doing so because necessary information will not be 
available.  To  address  this  issue,  jurisdictions  may  provide  some  flexibility  regarding  the  date  for  the 
notification requirement if applicable, as neither the Action 13 standard nor the model legislation requires 
the notification to be at the end of the reporting fiscal year. For example, jurisdictions which are introducing 
notification requirements may choose another date for notifications, such as the date for filing a CbC report 
or the date for filing a corporate tax return.  

Jurisdictions which require notifications may also provide administrative guidance to allow transitional relief 
in  respect  of  these  requirements.  For  example,  Constituent  Entities  could  be  authorised  to  provide  a 
notification based on a preliminary assessment of the identity and tax residence of the Reporting Entity. 
An updated notification based on new information could be provided by the Constituent Entity by the date 
for filing the CbC report. Jurisdictions which require notifications could also provide transitional relief from 
penalties in connection with MNE Groups updating their notification.  

Transitional  relief  in  these  circumstances  would  not  be  frustrating  the  policy  