 annual  reports,  record  keeping,  notification  of  changes  in 
critical assumptions etc.); and

j)  Confirmation that, in order to secure the confidence of taxpayers 
and  competent  authorities  in  a  MAP  APA  process  in  which 
information  is  exchanged  freely,  all  information  submitted  by 
a  taxpayer  in  a  MAP  APA  case  (including  the  identity  of  the 
taxpayer) will be protected from disclosure to the fullest extent 
possible under the domestic laws of the respective jurisdictions 
and all information exchanged between the competent authorities 
involved in such a case will be protected in accordance with the 
relevant bilateral tax treaty and applicable domestic laws.

D.4. Implementation of the MAP APA

D.4.1.  Giving effect to the MAP APA and providing confirmation to 

the taxpayer
67. 
Once  the  MAP  APA  has  been  finally  agreed,  the  participating  tax 
authorities  need  to  give  effect  to  the  agreement  in  their  own  jurisdiction. 
The  tax  administrations  should  enter  into  some  kind  of  a  confirmation  or 
agreement with their respective taxpayers consistent with the mutual agreement 
entered  into  by  the  participating  competent  authorities.  This  confirmation 
or agreement would provide the taxpayer with the certainty that the transfer 
pricing  transactions  covered  by  the  MAP  APA  would  not  be  adjusted,  so 
long  as  the  taxpayer  complies  with  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  mutual 
agreement, as reflected in the domestic confirmation or agreement and has not 
made materially false or misleading statements during the process, including 
statements made in annual compliance reports. The terms and conditions would 
include certain assumptions which, if not met, might require an adjustment to 
be made or the agreement to be reconsidered.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS – 537

68. 
The  way  this  confirmation  or  agreement  is  given  will  vary  from 
jurisdiction  to  jurisdiction  and  the  exact  form  will  depend  on  the  particular 
domestic law and practice. In some jurisdictions the confirmation or agreement 
will  take  the  form  of  an  APA  under  the  relevant  domestic  procedure.  To 
implement  the  mutual  agreement  effectively,  the  domestic  confirmation  or 
agreement must be consistent with the MAP APA and give the taxpayer, as a 
minimum, the same benefits as negotiated in the mutual agreement. Additionally, 
where it was not possible to completely eliminate double taxation, it is open to 
one of the participating jurisdictions to give unilateral relief from the remaining 
double taxation in its domestic confirmation procedure. Also, that confirmation 
or agreement may cover additional matters to those contained in the MAP APA, 
for example the domestic tax treatment of other or ancillary issues, additional 
record keeping or documentation requirements and the filing of reports. Care 
should  be  taken  to  ensure  that  none  of  the  additional  terms  of  the  domestic 
confirmation or agreement conflict with the terms of the MAP APA.

D.4.2. Possible retroactive application (“Roll back”)
69. 
Neither  the  tax  administrations  nor  the  taxpayer  are  in  any  way 
obliged to apply the methodology agreed upon as part of the MAP APA to 
tax years ending prior to the first year of the MAP APA (often referred to as 
“rolling back”). Indeed, to do so might be impossible if a different fact pattern 
then prevailed. However, the methodology to be applied prospectively under 
the MAP APA may be instructive in determining the treatment of comparable 
transactions in earlier years. In some cases, the transfer prices may already 
be  under  enquiry  by  one  tax  administration  in  accounting  periods  prior  to 
the  MAP  APA  period  and  that  tax  administration  and  the  taxpayer  may 
wish  to  take  the  opportunity  to  use  the  agreed  methodology  to  resolve  the 
enquiry,  or,  pursuant  to  domestic  law  requirements,  the  tax  administration 
may choose to make such an adjustment even without the taxpayer’s request 
or  agreement.  Element  2.7  of  the  Action  14  minimum  standard  states  that 
jurisdictions with bilateral APA programmes should provide for the roll-back 
of APAs (to previous filed tax years not included within the original scope of 
the APA) in appropriate cases, subject to the applicable time limits (such as 
domestic law statutes of limitation for assessments) where the relevant facts 
and  circumstances  in  the  earlier  tax  years  are  the  same  and  subject  to  the 
verification of these facts and circumstances on audit.

E. MAP APA monitoring

70. 
It is essential that the tax administrations are able to establish that 
the  taxpayer  is  abiding  by  the  terms  and  conditions  on  which  the  mutual 
agreement  is  based,  throughout  its  duration.  As  the  mutual  agreement  is 
made  b