 delineation of the transaction after 
the  restructuring  may  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  this  is  in  substance  a 
funding  arrangement  between  Company  A  and  Company  Z,  rather  than  a 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

400 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

restructuring for the centralisation of intangible management. An assessment 
may be necessary of the commercial rationality of the transaction based on 
the guidance in Section D.2 of Chapter I taking into account the full facts and 
circumstances of the transaction8.

9.125.  There will also be cases where before-and-after comparisons can be 
made because the transactions prior to the restructuring were not controlled, 
for  instance  where  the  restructuring  follows  an  acquisition,  and  where 
adjustments  can  reliably  be  made  to  account  for  the  differences  between 
the  pre-restructuring  uncontrolled  transactions  and  the  post-restructuring 
controlled  transactions.  See  example  in  paragraph  9.110.  Whether  such 
uncontrolled  transactions  provide  reliable  comparables  would  have  to  be 
evaluated in light of the guidance in paragraph 3.2.

E. Location savings

9.126.  Location  savings  can  be  derived  by  an  MNE  group  that  relocates 
some  of  its  activities  to  a  place  where  costs  (such  as  labour  costs,  real 
estate  costs,  etc.)  are  lower  than  in  the  location  where  the  activities  were 
initially  performed,  account  being  taken  of  the  possible  costs  involved  in 
the relocation (such as termination costs for the existing operation, possibly 
higher infrastructure costs in the new location, possibly higher transportation 
costs if the new operation is more distant from the market, training costs of 
local employees, etc.). Where a business strategy aimed at deriving location 
savings is put forward as a business reason for restructuring, the discussion 
in Section D.1.5 of Chapter I is relevant.

9.127.  Where significant location savings are derived further to a business 
restructuring,  the  question  arises  of  whether  and  if  so  how  the  location 
savings should be shared among the parties. In addressing this matter, the 
guidance in Section D.6 of Chapter I is relevant.

9.128.  Take  the  example  of  an  enterprise  that  designs,  manufactures  and 
sells brand name clothes. Assume that the manufacturing process is basic and 
that the brand name is famous and represents a highly valuable intangible. 
Assume  that  the  enterprise  is  established  in  Country  A  where  the  labour 
costs are high and that it decides to close down its manufacturing activities in 
Country A and to relocate them in an affiliate company in Country B where 
labour  costs  are  significantly  lower.  The  enterprise  in  Country  A  retains 
the  rights  on  the  brand  name  and  continues  designing  the  clothes.  Further 
to  this  restructuring,  the  clothes  will  be  manufactured  by  the  affiliate  in 
Country B under a contract manufacturing arrangement. The arrangement 

8. 

This is notwithstanding any possible application of general anti-avoidance rules and 
notwithstanding the question about Company Z’s place of effective management.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 401

does not involve the use of any significant intangible owned by or licensed 
to the affiliate or the assumption of any significant risks by the affiliate in 
Country  B.  Once  manufactured  by  the  affiliate  in  Country  B,  the  clothes 
will be sold to the enterprise in Country A which will on-sell them to third 
party  customers.  Assume  that  this  restructuring  makes  it  possible  for  the 
group formed by the enterprise in Country A and its affiliate in Country B to 
derive significant location savings. The question arises whether the location 
savings should be attributed to the enterprise in Country A, or its affiliate in 
Country B, or both (and if so in what proportions).

9.129. 
In  such  an  example,  given  that  the  relocated  activity  is  a  highly 
competitive one, it is likely that the enterprise in Country A has the option 
realistically  available  to  it  to  use  either  the  affiliate  in  Country  B  or  a 
third  party  manufacturer.  As  a  consequence,  it  should  be  possible  to  find 
comparables data to determine the conditions in which a third party would 
be willing at arm’s length to manufacture the clothes for the enterprise. In 
such a situation, a contract manufacturer at arm’s length would generally be 
attributed  very  little,  if  any,  part  of  the  location  savings.  Doing  otherwise 
would  put  the  associated  manufacturer  in  a  situation  different  from  the 
situation of an independent manufacturer, and would be contrary to the arm’s 
length principle.

9.130.  As  another  example,  assume  now  that  an  enterprise  in  Country  X 
provides highly specialised and