r  enterprises.  however, 
SMEs should be obliged to provide information and documents about their material cross-
border transactions upon a specific request of the tax administration in the course of a tax 
examination or for transfer pricing risk assessment purposes.

34.  For purposes of Annex III to Chapter v of these Guidelines, the Country-by-Country 
Report should include all tax jurisdictions in which the MNE group has an entity resident 
for tax purposes, regardless of the size of business operations in that tax jurisdiction.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

18 –  ChAPTER v OF ThE TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES ON DOCUMENTATION

D.4. Retention of documents

35.  Taxpayers  should  not  be  obliged  to  retain  documents  beyond  a  reasonable  period 
consistent  with  the  requirements  of  domestic  law  at  either  the  parent  company  or  local 
entity level. however, at times materials and information required in the documentation 
package  (master  file,  local  file  and  Country-by-Country  Report)  may  be  relevant  to  a 
transfer pricing enquiry for a subsequent year that is not time barred, for example where 
taxpayers voluntarily keep such records in relation to long-term contracts, or to determine 
whether comparability standards relating to the application of a transfer pricing method in 
that subsequent year are satisfied. Tax administrations should bear in mind the difficulties 
in locating documents for prior years and should restrict such requests to instances where 
they have good reason in connection with the transaction under examination for reviewing 
the documents in question.

36.  Because the tax administration’s ultimate interest would be satisfied if the necessary 
documents were submitted in a timely manner when requested by the tax administration 
in  the  course  of  an  examination,  the  way  that  documentation  is  stored    –  whether 
in  paper,  electronic  form,  or  in  any  other  system  –  should  be  at  the  discretion  of  the 
taxpayer  provided  that  relevant  information  can  promptly  be  made  available  to  the  tax 
administration in the form specified by the local country rules and practices.

D.5. Frequency of documentation updates

37. 
It  is  recommended  that  transfer  pricing  documentation  be  periodically  reviewed 
in  order  to  determine  whether  functional  and  economic  analyses  are  still  accurate  and 
relevant and to confirm the validity of the applied transfer pricing methodology. In general, 
the master file, the local file and the Country-by-Country Report should be reviewed and 
updated annually. It is recognised, however, that in many situations business descriptions, 
functional analyses, and descriptions of comparables may not change significantly from 
year to year.

38. 
In  order  to  simplify  compliance  burdens  on  taxpayers,  tax  administrations  may 
determine,  as  long  as  the  operating  conditions  remain  unchanged,  that  the  searches  in 
databases for comparables supporting part of the local file be updated every three years 
rather  than  annually.  Financial  data  for  the  comparables  should  nonetheless  be  updated 
every year in order to apply the arm’s length principle reliably.

D.6. Language

39.  The  necessity  of  providing  documentation  in  local  language  may  constitute  a 
complicating factor with respect to transfer pricing compliance to the extent that substantial 
time and cost may be involved in translating documents. The language in which transfer 
pricing  documentation  should  be  submitted  should  be  established  under  local  laws. 
Countries are encouraged to permit filing of transfer pricing documentation in commonly 
used  languages  where  it  will  not  compromise  the  usefulness  of  the  documents.  where 
tax administrations believe that translation of documents is necessary, they should make 
specific  requests  for  translation  and  provide  sufficient  time  to  make  such  translation  as 
comfortable a burden as possible.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

 ChAPTER v OF ThE TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES ON DOCUMENTATION – 19

D.7. Penalties

40.  Many  countries  have  adopted  documentation-related  penalties  to  ensure  efficient 
operation  of  transfer  pricing  documentation  requirements.  They  are  designed  to  make 
non-compliance more costly than compliance. Penalty regimes are governed by the laws of 
each individual country. Country practices with regard to transfer pricing documentation-
related penalties vary widely. The existence of different local country penalty regimes may 
influence the quality of taxpayers’ compliance so that taxpayers could be driven to favour 
one country over another in their compliance practices.

41.  Documentation-related penalties imposed for failure to comply with transfer pricing 
documentation requirements or fail