4.127.  Transfer  pricing  compliance  and  administration  is  often  complex, 
time consuming and costly. Properly designed safe harbour provisions, applied 
in appropriate circumstances, can help to relieve some of these burdens and 
provide taxpayers with greater certainty.

4.128.  Safe harbour provisions may raise issues such as potentially having 
perverse effects on the pricing decisions of enterprises engaged in controlled 
transactions  and  a  negative  impact  on  the  tax  revenues  of  the  jurisdiction 
implementing the safe harbour as well as on the jurisdictions whose associated 
enterprises  engage  in  controlled  transactions  with  taxpayers  electing  a  safe 
harbour. Further, unilateral safe harbours may lead to the potential for double 
taxation or double non-taxation.

4.129.  However,  in  cases  involving  smaller  taxpayers  or  less  complex 
transactions, the benefits of safe harbours may outweigh the problems raised 
by such provisions. Making such safe harbours elective to taxpayers can further 
limit the divergence from arm’s length pricing. Where jurisdictions adopt safe 
harbours, willingness to modify safe-harbour outcomes in mutual agreement 
proceedings to limit the potential risk of double taxation is advisable.

4.130.  Where safe harbours can be negotiated on a bilateral or multilateral 
basis,  they  may  provide  significant  relief  from  compliance  burdens  and 
administrative  complexity  without  creating  problems  of  double  taxation 
or  double  non-taxation.  Therefore,  the  use  of  bilateral  or  multilateral  safe 
harbours under the right circumstances should be encouraged.

4.131. 
It should be clearly recognised that a safe harbour, whether adopted 
on a unilateral or bilateral basis, is in no way binding on or precedential for 
jurisdictions which have not themselves adopted the safe harbour.

4.132.  For  more  complex  and  higher  risk  transfer  pricing  matters,  it  is 
unlikely that safe harbours will provide a workable alternative to a rigorous, 
case by case application of the arm’s length principle under the provisions of 
these Guidelines.

4.133.  Tax  administrations  in  each  jurisdiction  should  carefully  weigh  the 
benefits of and concerns regarding safe harbours, making use of such provisions 
where they deem it appropriate.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

F. Advance pricing arrangements6

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 213

F.1.  Definition and concept of advance pricing arrangements

4.134.  An  advance  pricing  arrangement  (APA)  is  an  arrangement  that 
determines,  in  advance  of  controlled  transactions,  an  appropriate  set  of 
criteria  (e.g.  method,  comparables  and  appropriate  adjustments  thereto, 
critical assumptions as to future events) for the determination of the transfer 
pricing for those transactions over a fixed period of time. An APA is formally 
initiated by a taxpayer and requires negotiations between the taxpayer, one 
or more associated enterprises, and one or more tax administrations. APAs 
are  intended  to  supplement  the  traditional  administrative,  judicial,  and 
treaty mechanisms for resolving transfer pricing issues. They may be most 
useful  when  traditional  mechanisms  fail  or  are  difficult  to  apply.  Detailed 
guidelines  for  conducting  advance  pricing  arrangements  under  the  mutual 
agreement procedure (MAP APAs) were adopted in October 1999 and are 
found as an Annex to this chapter. The work pursuant to Action 14 of the 
BEPS Action Plan to ensure the timely, effective and efficient resolution of 
treaty-related  disputes  recommended,  as  non-binding  best  practice  4,  that 
jurisdictions  should  implement  bilateral  APA  programmes  as  soon  as  they 
have the capacity to do so, recognising that APAs provide a greater level of 
certainty in both treaty partner jurisdictions, lessen the likelihood of double 
taxation and may proactively prevent transfer pricing disputes. In this regard, 
it  should  be  noted  that  the  country  mutual  agreement  procedure  profiles 
prepared pursuant to element 2.2 of the Action 14 minimum standard include 
information on the bilateral APA programmes.

4.135.  One key issue in the concept of APAs is how specific they can be in 
prescribing a taxpayer’s transfer pricing over a period of years, for example 
whether only the transfer pricing methodology or more particular results can 
be fixed in a particular case. In general, great care must be taken if the APA 
goes  beyond  the  methodology,  the  way  it  will  be  applied,  and  the  critical 
assumptions,  because  more  specific  conclusions  rely  on  predictions  about 
future events.

4.136.  The  reliability  of  any  prediction  used  in  an  APA  depends  both 
on  the  nature  of  the  prediction  and  the  critical  assumptions  on  which  the 
prediction  is  based.  For  example,  it  would  not  be  reasonable  to  assert  that