action  can  normally  be  traced  directly 
to  the  commercial  and  financial  relations  made  or  imposed  between  the 
enterprises,  and  the  arm’s  length  conditions  can  be  established  by  directly 
substituting  the  price  in  the  comparable  uncontrolled  transaction  for  the 
price of the controlled transaction. As a result, where, taking account of the 
criteria  described  in  paragraph  2.2,  a  traditional  transaction  method  and  a 
transactional profit method can be applied in an equally reliable manner, the 
traditional transaction method is preferable to the transactional profit method. 
Moreover, where, taking account of the criteria described in paragraph 2.2, 
the comparable uncontrolled price method (CUP) and another transfer pricing 
method can be applied in an equally reliable manner, the CUP method is to 
be preferred. See paragraphs 2.14-2.26 for a discussion of the CUP method.

2.4. 
There are situations where transactional profit methods are found to 
be more appropriate than traditional transaction methods. For example, cases 
where each of the parties makes unique and valuable contributions in relation 
to the controlled transaction, or where the parties engage in highly integrated 
activities,  may  make  a  transactional  profit  split  more  appropriate  than  a 
one-sided method. As another example, where there is no or limited publicly 
available  reliable  gross  margin  information  on  third  parties,  traditional 
transaction  methods  might  be  difficult  to  apply  in  cases  other  than  those 
where there are internal comparables, and a transactional profit method might 
be the most appropriate method in view of the availability of information.

2.5. 
However, it is not appropriate to apply a transactional profit method 
merely  because  data  concerning  uncontrolled  transactions  are  difficult  to 
obtain  or  incomplete  in  one  or  more  respects.  The  same  criteria  listed  in 
paragraph  2.2  that  were  used  to  reach  the  initial  conclusion  that  none  of 
the  traditional  transactional  methods  could  be  reliably  applied  under  the 
circumstances must be considered again in evaluating the reliability of the 
transactional profit method.

2.6.  Methods that are based on profits can be accepted only insofar as they 
are compatible with Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax Convention, especially 
with regard to comparability. This is achieved by applying the methods in a 
manner that approximates arm’s length pricing. The application of the arm’s 
length principle is generally based on a comparison of the price, margin or 
profits from particular controlled transactions with the price, margin or profits 
from comparable transactions between independent enterprises. In the case 
of a transactional profit split method, it is based on an approximation of the 
division of profits that independent enterprises would have expected to realise 
from engaging in the transaction(s) (see paragraph 2.114).

2.7. 
In no case should transactional profit methods be used so as to result 
in  over-taxing  enterprises  mainly  because  they  make  profits  lower  than  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 95

average, or in under-taxing enterprises that make higher than average profits. 
There is no justification under the arm’s length principle for imposing additional 
tax on enterprises that are less successful than average or, conversely, for under-
taxing enterprises that are more successful than average, when the reason for 
their success or lack thereof is attributable to commercial factors.

The  guidance  in  paragraph  2.2  that  the  selection  of  a  transfer 
2.8. 
pricing method always aims at finding the most appropriate method for each 
particular case does not mean that all the transfer pricing methods should be 
analysed in depth or tested in each case in arriving at the selection of the most 
appropriate method. As a matter of good practice, the selection of the most 
appropriate method and comparables should be evidenced and can be part of 
a typical search process as proposed in paragraph 3.4.

2.9.  Moreover,  MNE  groups  retain  the  freedom  to  apply  methods  not 
described  in  these  Guidelines  (hereafter  “other  methods”)  to  establish 
prices provided those prices satisfy the arm’s length principle in accordance 
with  these  Guidelines.  Such  other  methods  should  however  not  be  used 
in  substitution  for  OECD-recognised  methods  where  the  latter  are  more 
appropriate to the facts and circumstances of the case. In cases where other 
methods are used, their selection should be supported by an explanation of 
why  OECD-recognised  methods  were  regarded  as  less  appropriate  or  non-
workable in the circumstances of the case and of the reason why the selected 
other method was regarded as providing a better solution. A taxpayer should 
maintain and be pre