ure;

d)  the  jurisdiction  of  tax  residence  of  the  Surrogate  Parent  Entity 
has been notified in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 3 by 
the Constituent Entity resident for tax purposes in its jurisdiction 
that it is the Surrogate Parent Entity; and

e)  a notification has been provided to [Jurisdiction Tax Administration] 

in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 3.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 567

Article 3
Notification

1. 
Any  Constituent  Entity  of  an  MNE  Group  that  is  resident  for  tax 
purposes in [Jurisdiction] shall notify the [Jurisdiction Tax Administration] 
whether  it  is  the  Ultimate  Parent  Entity  or  the  Surrogate  Parent  Entity,  no 
later than [the last day of the Reporting Fiscal year of such MNE Group].

2. 
Where a Constituent Entity of an MNE Group that is resident for tax 
purposes in [Jurisdiction] is not the Ultimate Parent Entity nor the Surrogate 
Parent  Entity,  it  shall  notify  the  [Jurisdiction  Tax  Administration]  of  the 
identity and tax residence of the Reporting Entity, no later than [the last day 
of the Reporting Fiscal year of such MNE Group].

Article 4
Country-by-Country Report

For purposes of this [title of the law], a Country-by-Country Report 

1. 
with respect to an MNE Group is a report containing:

i)  Aggregate  information  relating  to  the  amount  of  revenue,  profit 
(loss) before income tax, income tax paid, income tax accrued, stated 
capital,  accumulated  earnings,  number  of  employees,  and  tangible 
assets  other  than  cash  or  cash  equivalents  with  regard  to  each 
jurisdiction in which the MNE Group operates;

ii)  An  identification  of  each  Constituent  Entity  of  the  MNE  Group 
setting  out  the  jurisdiction  of  tax  residence  of  such  Constituent 
Entity, and where different from such jurisdiction of tax residence, 
the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Constituent Entity is 
organised, and the nature of the main business activity or activities 
of such Constituent Entity.

2. 
The  Country-by-Country  Report  shall  be  filed  in  a  form  identical 
to  and  applying  the  definitions  and  instructions  contained  in  the  standard 
template set out at [Annex III of Chapter V of the OECD Transfer Pricing 
Guidelines  as  the  same  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time]  /  [Annex  III 
of  the  Report  Transfer  Pricing  Documentation  and  Country-by-Country 
Reporting on Action 13 of the OECD/G20 Action Plan on Base Erosion and 
Profit Shifting] / [the Appendix to this law].

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

568 – ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

Article 5
Time for filing

The Country-by-Country Report required by this [title of the law] shall 
be filed no later than 12 months after the last day of the Reporting Fiscal year 
of the MNE Group.

Article 6
Use and Confidentiality of Country-by-Country Report 
Information

1. 
The  [Jurisdiction  Tax  Administration]  shall  use  the  Country-by-
Country Report for purposes of assessing high-level transfer pricing risks and 
other base erosion and profit shifting related risks in [Jurisdiction], including 
assessing the risk of non-compliance by members of the MNE Group with 
applicable  transfer  pricing  rules,  and  where  appropriate  for  economic  and 
statistical  analysis.  Transfer  pricing  adjustments  by  the  [Jurisdiction  Tax 
Administration] will not be based on the CbC Report.

The [Jurisdiction Tax Administration] shall preserve the confidentiality 
2. 
of the information contained in the Country-by-Country Report at least to the 
same extent that would apply if such information were provided to it under 
the  provisions  of  the  Multilateral  Convention  on  Mutual  Administrative 
Assistance in Tax Matters.

Article 7
Penalties

This model legislation does not include provisions regarding penalties 
to  be  imposed  in  the  event  a  Reporting  Entity  fails  to  comply  with  the 
reporting requirements for the Country-by-Country Report. It is assumed 
that  jurisdictions  would  wish  to  extend  their  existing  transfer  pricing 
documentation penalty regime to the requirements to file the Country-by-
Country Report.

Article 8
Effective Date

This  [title  of  the  law]  is  effective  for  Reporting  Fiscal  years  of  MNE 

Groups beginning on or after [1 January 2016].

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 569

Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement on the 
Exchange of Country-by-Country Reports

Whereas,  the  jurisdictions  of  the  signatories  to  the  Multilateral 
Competent  Authority  Agreement  on  the  Exchange  of  Country-by-Country 
Reports  (the  “Agreement”)  are  Parties  of,  or  territories  covered  by,  the 
Convention  on  Mutual  Admi