  

Page 7 

  
 
 
 
            
 
 
 
 
 The Assessing Officer (AO) shall, before initiating any proceedings for holding a 
11. 
company  incorporated  outside  India,  on  the  basis  of  its  POEM,  as  being  resident  in 
India,  seek  prior  approval  of  the  Principal  Commissioner  or  the  Commissioner,  as  the 
case may be. 

11.1  Further, in case the AO proposes to hold a company incorporated outside India, 
on the basis of its POEM, as being resident in India then any such finding shall be given 
by the AO after seeking prior approval of the  collegium of three members consisting of 
the  Principal  Commissioners  or  the  Commissioners,  as  the  case  may  be,  to  be 
constituted by the Principal Chief Commissioner of the region concerned, in this regard. 
The collegium so constituted shall provide an opportunity of being heard to the company 
before issuing any directions in the matter. 

12. Illustrations:   

The following are certain illustrations intended to highlight applicability of certain 
principles  enumerated  in  the  foregoing  paragraphs  of  the  guidelines.    The  facts 
assumed have been simplified to highlight the principle.  Actual determination of POEM 
of a company shall depend on all relevant facts. 

Example  1:  Company  A  Co.  is  a  sourcing  entity,  for  an  Indian  multinational  group, 
incorporated  in  country  X  and  is  100%  subsidiary  of  Indian  company  (B  Co.).    The 
warehouses and stock  in them are the only  assets of the company  and are located in 
country  X.    All  the  employees  of  the  company  are  also  in  country  X.    The  average 
income wise breakup of the company’s total income for three years is, -  

(i). 

(ii). 

(iii). 

(iv). 

30% of income is from transaction where purchases are made from parties which 
are non-associated enterprises and sold to associated enterprises; 
30%  of  income  is  from  transaction  where  purchases  are  made  from  associated 
enterprises and sold to associated enterprises; 
30%  of  income  is  from  transaction  where  purchases  are  made  from  associated 
enterprises and sold to non-associated enterprises; and 
10% of the income is by way of interest. 

Interpretation: In this case passive income is 40% of the total income of the company. 
The passive income consists of, -  
(i). 

30%  income  from  the  transaction  where  both  purchase  and  sale  is  from/to 
associated enterprises; and 
10% income from interest. 
The  A  Co.  satisfies  the  first  requirement  of  the  test  of  active  business  outside 
India.  Since no assets or employees of A Co. are in India the other requirements 
of  the  test  is  also  satisfied.    Therefore  company  is  engaged  in  active  business 
outside India. 

(ii). 

Page 8 

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Example 2: The other facts remain same as that in Example 1 with the variation that A 
Co. has a total of 50 employees. 47 employees, managing the warehouse, storekeeping 
and accounts of the company, are located in country X.  The Managing Director (MD), 
Chief  Executive  Officer  (CEO)  and  sales  head  are  resident  in  India.    The  total  annual 
payroll  expenditure  on  these  50  employees  is  of  Rs.  5  crore.    The  annual  payroll 
expenditure in respect of MD, CEO and sales head  is of Rs. 3 crore. 

Interpretation: Although the first limb of active business test is satisfied by A Co. as only 
40% of its total income is passive in nature.  Further, more than 50% of the employees 
are also situated outside India.  All the assets are situated outside India.  However, the 
payroll expenditure in respect of the MD, the CEO and the sales head being employees 
resident in India exceeds 50% of the total payroll expenditure.  Therefore, A Co. is not 
engaged in active business outside India. 

Example  3:  The  basic  facts  are  same  as  in  Example  1.    Further  facts  are  that  all  the 
directors  of  the  A  Co.  are  Indian  residents.    During  the  relevant  previous  year  5 
meetings of the Board of Directors is held of which two were held in India and 3 outside 
India with two in country X and one in country Y.   

Interpretation:  The  A  Co.  is  engaged  in  active  business  outside  India  as  the  facts 
indicated  in  Example  1  establish.    The  majority  of  board  meetings  have  been  held 
outside India.  Therefore, the POEM of A Co. shall be presumed to be outside India. 

Example 4: The facts are same as in Example 3 but it is established by the Assessing 
Officer that although A Co.’s senior management team signs all the contracts, for all the 
contracts above Rs. 10 lakh the A Co. must submit its recommendation to B Co. and B 
Co.  makes  the  decision  whether or not the  contract  may  be accepted.   It  is also  seen 
that during the previous year more than 99% of the contracts are above Rs. 10 lakh and 
over past years also the same trend in respect of value contribution of contracts above 
Rs.