enefits of 
a CCA consist of a right in an intangible that is hard to value at the start of 
the development project or if pre-existing intangibles that are hard to value 
are part of the contributions to the CCA project, the guidance in Sections D.3 
and D.4 of Chapter VI on hard-to-value intangibles is applicable to value the 
contributions of each of the participants to the CCA.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

350 – CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS

C.5. Balancing payments

8.34.  A CCA will be considered consistent with the arm’s length principle 
where  the  value  of  each  participant’s  proportionate  share  of  the  overall 
contributions  to  the  arrangement  (taking  into  account  any  balancing 
payments  already  made)  is  consistent  with  the  participant’s  share  of  the 
overall expected benefits to be received under the arrangement. Where the 
value of a participant’s share of overall contributions under a CCA at the time 
the contributions are made is not consistent with that participant’s share of 
expected benefits under the CCA, the contributions made by at least one of 
the participants will be inadequate, and the contributions made by at least one 
other participant will be excessive. In such a case, the arm’s length principle 
would generally require that an adjustment be made. This will generally take 
the form of an adjustment to the contribution through making or imputing a 
(further) balancing payment. Such balancing payments increase the value of 
the contributions of the payor and decrease that of the payee.

8.35.  Balancing payments may be made by participants to “top up” the value 
of  the  contributions  when  their  proportionate  contributions  are  lower  than 
their proportionate expected benefits. Such adjustments may be anticipated by 
the participants upon entering into the CCA, or may be the result of periodic 
re-evaluation of their share of the expected benefits and/or the value of their 
contributions (see paragraph 8.22).

8.36.  Balancing  payments  may  also  be  required  by  tax  administrations 
where  the  value  of  a  participant’s  proportionate  contributions  of  property 
or  services  at  the  time  the  contribution  was  made  has  been  incorrectly 
determined, or where the participants’ proportionate expected benefits have 
been incorrectly assessed, e.g. where the allocation key when fixed or adjusted 
for  changed  circumstances  was  not  adequately  reflective  of  proportionate 
expected  benefits.  Normally  the  adjustment  would  be  made  by  a  balancing 
payment from one or more participants to another being made or imputed for 
the period in question.

In  the  case  of  development  CCAs,  variations  between  a  participant’s 
8.37. 
proportionate  share  of  the  overall  contributions  and  that  participant’s 
proportionate share of the overall expected benefits may occur in a particular 
year. If that CCA is otherwise acceptable and carried out faithfully, having regard 
to  the  recommendations  of  Section  E,  tax  administrations  should  generally 
refrain from making an adjustment based on the results of a single fiscal year. 
Consideration should be given to whether each participant’s proportionate share 
of the overall contributions is consistent with the participant’s proportionate share 
of  the  overall  expected  benefits  from  the  arrangement  over  a  period  of  years 
(see paragraphs 3.75-3.79). Separate balancing payments might be made for pre-
existing contributions and for current contributions, respectively. Alternatively, 
it might be more reliable or administrable to make an overall balancing payment 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS – 351

relating to pre-existing contributions and current contributions collectively. See 
Example 4 in the Annex to this chapter.

8.38. 
In the example in paragraph 8.33, the participants, Companies A and 
B, expect to benefit from the CCA in the ratio 75:25. In the first year the value 
of their pre-existing contributions is 10 million for Company A and 6 million 
for Company B. As a result, a net balancing payment is required to be made 
to Company B by Company A of 2 million (i.e. 4.5 million from Company A 
to Company B less 2.5 million from Company B to Company A) in order to 
increase Company A’s contribution to 12 million (75% of the total contributions) 
and reducing Company B’s contribution to 4 million (25% of the total).

C.6. Accurately delineating the actual transaction

8.39.  As indicated in paragraph 8.9, the economically relevant characteristics 
of the arrangement identified under the guidance in Section D of Chapter I 
may indicate that the actual transaction differs from the terms of the CCA 
purportedly  agreed  by  the  participants.  For  example,  one  or  more  of  the 
claimed participants may not have any reasonable expectation of benefit from 
the CCA ac