d upon comparison to that paid to independent advertising and 
marketing agents identified and determined to be comparable as part of the 
comparability analysis.

25. 
Under  these  circumstances,  Primair  is  entitled  to  retain  any  income 
derived from exploiting the R trademark and trade name in the Country y market 
that exceeds the arm’s length compensation to Company S for its functions and 
no transfer pricing adjustment is warranted under the circumstances.

Example 9

26. 
follows:

The facts in this example are the same as in Example 8, except as 

•  Under  the  contract  between  Primair  and  Company  S,  Company  S 
is  now  obligated  to  develop  and  execute  the  marketing  plan  for 
Country y without detailed control of specific elements of the plan 
by  Primair.  Company  S  bears  the  costs  and  assumes  certain  of 
the  risks  associated  with  the  marketing  activities.  The  agreement 
between  Primair  and  Company  S  does  not  specify  the  amount  of 
marketing  expenditure  Company  S  is  expected  to  incur,  only  that 
Company S is required to use its best efforts to market the watches. 
Company  S  receives  no  direct  reimbursement  from  Primair  in 
respect  of  any  expenditure  it  incurs,  nor  does  it  receive  any  other 
indirect  or  implied  compensation  from  Primair,  and  Company  S 
expects  to  earn  its  reward  solely  from  its  profit  from  the  sale  of 
R brand watches to third party customers in the Country y market. 
A thorough functional analysis reveals that Primair exercises a lower 
level  of  control  over  the  marketing  activities  of  Company  S  than 
in Example 8 in that it does not review and approve the marketing 
budget  or  design  details  of  the  marketing  plan.  Company  S  bears 
different  risks  and  is  compensated  differently  than  was  the  case 
in  Example  8.  The  contractual  arrangements  between  Primair  and 
Company S are different and the risks assumed by Company S are 
greater in Example 9 than in Example 8. Company S does not receive 
direct cost reimbursements or a separate fee for marketing activities. 
The  only  controlled  transaction  between  Primair  and  Company  S 
in  Example  9  is  the  transfer  of  the  branded  watches.  As  a  result, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 609

Company  S  can  obtain  its  reward  for  its  marketing  activities  only 
through selling R brand watches to third party customers.

•  As  a  result  of  these  differences,  Primair  and  Company  S  adopt  a 
lower  price  for  watches  in  Example  9  than  the  price  for  watches 
determined for purposes of Example 8. As a result of the differences 
identified  in  the  functional  analysis,  different  criteria  are  used  for 
identifying comparables and for making comparability adjustments 
than was the case in Example 8. This results in Company S having 
a  greater  anticipated  total  profit  in  Example  9  than  in  Example  8 
because of its higher level of risk and its more extensive functions.

27. 
Assume that in years 1 through 3, Company S embarks on a strategy 
that  is  consistent  with  its  agreement  with  Primair  and,  in  the  process, 
performs  marketing functions  and incurs  marketing expenses. As  a result, 
Company  S  has  high  operating  expenditures  and  slim  margins  in  years  1 
through  3.  By  the  end  of  year  2,  the  R  trademark  and  trade  name  have 
become  established  in  Country  y  because  of  Company  S’s  efforts.  Where 
the  marketer/distributor  actually  bears  the  costs  and  associated  risks  of  its 
marketing activities, the issue is the extent to which the marketer/distributor 
can  share  in  the  potential  benefits  from  those  activities.  Assume  that  the 
enquiries of the Country y tax administrations conclude, based on a review 
of  comparable  distributors,  that  Company  S  would  have  been  expected  to 
have  performed  the  functions  it  performed  and  incurred  its  actual  level  of 
marketing expense if it were independent from Primair.

28. 
Given  that  Company  S  performs  the  functions  and  bears  the  costs 
and  associated  risks  of  its  marketing  activities  under  a  long-term  contract 
of exclusive distribution rights for the R watches, there is an opportunity for 
Company S to benefit (or suffer a loss) from the marketing and distribution 
activities it undertakes. Based on an analysis of reasonably reliable comparable 
data, it is concluded that, for purposes of this example, the benefits obtained 
by  Company  S  result  in  profits  similar  to  those  made  by  independent 
marketers  and  distributors  bearing  the  same  types  of  risks  and  costs  as 
Company  S  in  the  first  few  years  of  comparable  long-term  marketing  and 
distribution agreements for similarly unknown products.

29. 
Based  on  the  foregoing  assumpti