F No. 500113912012
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Revenue
Central Board of Direct Taxes
(Foreign Tax and Tax Research-l Division)

New Delhi, the 26th day of March, 2013

Circular No. 03 /2013

Subjecfi Circular on conditions relevant to identify development centres engaged in
contract R&D services with insignificant risk

It has been brought to the notice of CBDT that there is divergence of views amongst the field
officers and taxpayers regarding the functional profile of development centres engaged in
contract R&D services for the purposes of transfer pricing audit. Moreover, while at times
taxpayers have been insisting that they are contract R&D service providers with insignificant
risk, the TPOs are treating them as full or significant risk-bearing entities and making transfer
pricing adjustments accordingly. The issue has been examined in  CBDT. lt  is hereby
clarified that a  development centre in India may be treated as a  contract R&D service
provider with insignificant risk if the following conditions are cumulatively complied w1h:

1 .

2 .

4.

functions;

Foreign principal performs most of the economically significant functions involved in
research or product development cycle whereas Indian development centre would
largely be involved in economically 
insignificant 
The principal provides funds/ capital and other economically significant assets
including intangibles for research or product development and lndian development
centre would not use any other economically significant assets including intangibles
in research or product development;
lndian development centre works under direct supervision of foreign principal who
not only has capability to control or supervise but also actually controls or supervises
research or product development through its strategic decisions to  perform core
functions as well as monitor activities on regular basis;
Indian development centre does not assume or has no economically significant
realized risks. lf a contract shows the principal to be controlling the risk but conduct
shows that lndian development centre is doing so, then the contractual terms are not
the final determinant of actual activities. In the case of foreign principal being located
in a  country/ territory widely perceived as a  low or no tax jurisdiction, it will be

presumed that the foreign principal is not controlling the risk. However, the Indian
development centre may rebut this presumption to the satisfaction of the revenue
iuthorities; and

S.  Indian development centre has no ownership right (legal or economic) on outcome of
research which vests with foreign principal, and that it shall be evident from conduct
of the parties.

The satisfaction of all the above mentioned conditions should be borne out by the conduct of
the parties and not merely by the contractual terms'

The above may be brought to the notice of all concerned.

M\31'1

(Batsala Jha Yadav)
Director APA
Central Board of Direct Taxes

Copy to:

1. The Chairperson, Members and all other officers of the CBDT of the rank of Under
Secretary and above.
2. All Chief Commissioners/Directors General of Income-tax.
3. The Director (PR, PP & OL), Mayur Bhawan, New Delhi for printing in the quarterly tax
bulletin and for circulation as per usual mailing list (100 Copies).
4. The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (40 copies).
5. All Directors of Income-tax, New Delhi
6. The Director General of Income-tax, NADT, Nagpur
7. Guard File.
8. Joint Secretary and LegalAdvisor, Ministry of Law and Justice, New Delhi
9. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of lndia, lP Estate, New Delhi

(Batsala Jha Yadav)
DirectorAPA
Central Board of Direct Taxes

