in the 
stateless entity category, the field in table 2 for "tax jurisdiction of organisation or incorporation if different 
from  tax  jurisdiction  of  residence"  should  indicate  the  jurisdiction  under  whose  laws  the  partnership  is 
formed/ organised.  

It  may  be  advisable  for  the  MNE  to  provide  an  explanation  in  the  notes  section  of  the  report  on  the 
partnership structure and on the stateless entities. For instance, a note in the Additional Information section 
may indicate that a partnership’s “stateless income” is includable and taxable in the partner jurisdiction.  

Where a partnership is the UPE, for the purpose of determining where it is required to file the CbC report 
in  its capacity  as the UPE, the jurisdiction under whose laws the partnership  is  formed /  organised will 
govern if there is no jurisdiction of tax residence.  

A permanent establishment of a partnership would be included in the CbC report in the same manner as 
any other permanent establishment.  

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
18 |   

Accounting principles/standards for determining the existence of and 
membership of a group (April 2017)  

3.1 To determine the existence of a “Group” and the membership of the Group under 
Article 1.1 of the model legislation in the Action 13 report: 

a)  If the equity interests of the relevant enterprise* are traded on a public securities 

exchange, should the applicable accounting standards be the accounting standards 
that currently apply to that enterprise for consolidated financial statement purposes? 

b)  If the equity interests of the relevant enterprise* are not traded on a public securities 

exchange, can the applicable accounting standards be chosen provided that the choice 
is either (i) local GAAP in the jurisdiction of the enterprise assumed to be listed or (ii) 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and provided the method chosen is 
used consistently? 

*Relevant enterprise would be the Ultimate Parent Entity under Article 1.6 of the model 
legislation in the Action 13 report. 

The Action 13 report does not specify that any particular accounting standard's consolidation rules be used. 
It is expected that:  

a) 

b) 

If the equity interests of the relevant enterprise, which would be an UPE under Article 1.6 of the model 
legislation, are traded on a public securities exchange, jurisdictions will require the Group to use the 
consolidation rules in the accounting standards already used by the Group.  

If the equity interests of the relevant enterprise, which would be an UPE under Article 1.6 of the model 
legislation,  are  not  traded  on  a  public  securities  exchange,  jurisdictions  may  allow  the  Group  to 
choose  to  use  either  local  GAAP  of  the  jurisdiction  of  the  UPE  (which  includes  US  GAAP  if  it  is 
permitted under the local rules and regulations of the jurisdiction of the UPE) or IFRS as its governing 
accounting standard, as long as the Group applies this choice consistently across years and for other 
aspects of the CbC report requiring reference to an accounting standard. However, if the jurisdiction 
of residence of the enterprise that would be the UPE mandates the use of a particular accounting 
standard (or standards) for enterprises the equity of which is traded on a public securities exchange, 
this  mandatory  standard  (or  one  of  these  mandatory  standards)  must  be  used.  Exceptionally,  if  a 
jurisdiction's consolidation rules generally require investment entities to be consolidated with investee 
companies,  the  jurisdiction  may  mandate  the  use  of  IFRS  consolidation  rules  for  the  purpose  of 
determining the membership of a Group. Any such deviation from the accounting standards generally 
followed for the CbC report of a particular MNE Group should be noted in Table 3 of the CbC report 
for the MNE Group.  

This guidance relates to what a jurisdiction may require from a Group which is a Group that is required to 
file a CbC report in the jurisdiction by reason of its UPE or SPE being resident in the jurisdiction.  

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
  | 19 

Treatment of major shareholdings (April 2017; updated September 2018) 

4.1 Where there are minority interests held by unrelated parties in a Constituent Entity, 
should the previous year's consolidated group revenue include 100 percent of the 
Constituent Entity's revenue for the purpose of applying the 750 million Euro threshold 
(or near equivalent amount in local currency as of January 2015) to identify an Excluded 
MNE Group, or should the revenue be pro-rated? Further, should the entity's financial 
data that is included in the CbC report represent the full 100 percent or should it be pro-
rated?  

Under the condition that accounting rules in the jurisdiction of the UPE