ies, 

number  of  employees  in  the  group;

l  major historical events like global mergers or acquisitions, 

if  any;

l  a  snapshot  of  the  key  financial  numbers; 

l  description  of  transactions  entered  into  with  AE;  and

l  awards  and  recognitions  etc.

1.4.2.6  BUSINESS  OVERVIEW  OF  THE  TAXPAYER:  The  documentation 
should also include a brief description of the business of the Indian 
company  with  respect  to  the  year  under  review.

I-108

Transfer Pricing – A Compendium 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer Pricing Documentation and its Critical Importance in Practice

1.4.2.7  The  different  aspects  which  can  be  included  are  as  under:

l  the  historical  background  of  the  company’s  operations 
like date of incorporation, significant events like mergers 
and  acquisitions  etc.;

l  organization  structure  –a  high  level  diagrammatic 

representation  would  be  advisable;

l  business  activities  carried  out  by    the    Indian    entity  i.e., 
whether it is a manufacturer, trader, or a services provider;

l  products  and  services  offered  by  the  taxpayer  and  the 

industry  in  which  such  products  are  used;

l  the  geographical  presence  of  the  entity;

l  manufacturing  facilities;

l  number  of  employees;

l  research and development (R&D) activity, if any, carried 

out  by  the  company;

l  key  customers;

l  any key event during the year under consideration which 

would  have  impacted  the  business  as  a  whole;  and

l  the industry in which the goods manufactured/distributed, 
service provided by the taxpayer is consumed, can also be 
mentioned  to  establish  the  dependence  of  the  taxpayer’s 
business  on  any  particular  industry.

1.4.3 

Industry  Analysis 

1.4.3.1  REQUIREMENT:  Rule  10D(1)(c)  requires  a  taxpayer  to 
prepare  an  overview  of  the  industry  in  which  the  entity  operates. 
The  industry  overview  should  be  drawn  from  relevant  industry 
associations or other authentic sources and should more specifically 
discuss  conditions  prevailing  in  the  market  during  the  year  under 
consideration  both  from  a  global  as  well  as  domestic  perspective. 

1.4.3.2  For  instance,  recently  the  outburst  of  novel  corona  virus 
(COVID-19),  has  not  only  impacted  day  to  day  lives  but  also  led 
to  shutting  down  business  due  to  nationwide  lockdown.  Some 

I-109

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
industries  were  operating  under  essential  services,  therefore  were 
not  impacted  much  by  the  pandemic.  However,  for  majority  of 
industries, business was shut for few months. The pandemic changed 
ways of doing business wherein business had to incur various cost 
to go the digital way. The pandemic impacted top line/bottom line 
of various businesses whereas the fixed cost remained at Pre-Covid 
level. In case of some industries, the cost savings due to work from 
home  nullified  the  impact  of  Covid  on  the  bottom  line. 

1.4.3.3  Such  events  which  are  correlated  to  industry,  economic 
situation  in  particular,  are  required  to  be  taken  into  consideration 
while documenting the industry overview. Appropriate documentation 
of  industry  overview  will  help  to  justify  the  potential  impact  on 
the  arm’s  length  analysis.

1.4.3.4  OBJECTIVITY: The industry overview should be objective and 
should bring out the nuances affecting the players in the taxpayer’s 
business.  The  same  should  also  discuss  the  value  drivers  of  the 
taxpayer’s industry which enables one to understand the criticality 
of  the  functions  performed  by  the  taxpayer  and  the  AEs  in  the 
scheme  of  overall  business  operations.

1.4.3.5  DETAILS TO BE COVERED: Further, certain industries are highly 
regulated,  in  which  case  the  relevant  regulatory  framework  and 
its  impact  on  the  pricing  of  the  international  transaction,  if  any, 
should  also  be  discussed.  In  case  there  are  certain  critical  factors 
which distinguish the taxpayer from the industry at large, the same 
could form the basis of making appropriate economic adjustments 
while carrying out the benchmarking analysis and hence, should be 
highlighted. For example, in case the taxpayer is a new entrant in the 
industry as compared to other established players operating in the 
industry,  the  said  fact  can  be  used  to  demonstrate  that  the  results 
of  the  taxpayer  would  be  impacted  by  such  difference  and  could 
form the basis for appropriate economic adjustments on account of 
being  a  new  entrant  in  the  industry.  The  industry  overview  may 
also include a list of the taxpayer’s competitors. Further, a link can 
also be drawn to the comparables selected while benchmarking the 
international  transactions  of  the  taxpayer.

1.4.3.6  SOURCE:  The  industry  overview  can  be  sourced  from  both 
internal and external sources. The internal source could be taxpay