bC report filed by a “surrogate 
parent entity” which is a Constituent Entity appointed by an MNE as a sole substitute for the UPE, to file a 
CbC report on behalf of the MNE where certain conditions are met. This guidance does not concern the 
exchange of CbC reports filed by a surrogate parent entity. 

7 This guidance does not prevent the automatic exchange of locally filed CbC reports within the European 
Union, which is required under Directive 2016/881/EU, nor does this guidance concern the spontaneous 
exchange of CbC reports or the exchange of CbC reports on request. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
 
  | 45 

6 Issues relating to 

Mergers/Acquisitions/Demergers  

Treatment in case of Mergers/Acquisitions/Demergers (November 2017) 

1.1 When in a given year there are changes in ownership due to mergers, acquisitions 
and demergers, how is the CbC filing obligation for that given year affected and what 
information should be reported in the CbC report?  

For the year in which a merger/acquisition/demerger occurs, the determination of whether the Group is or 
is not an Excluded MNE Group shall be based on the Group's total consolidated group revenue during the 
Fiscal Year immediately preceding the Reporting Fiscal Year, as reflected  in its  Consolidated Financial 
Statements for such preceding Fiscal Year. There is no need to adjust the consolidated group revenue for 
the preceding Fiscal Year due to a merger/acquisition/demerger occurring during the following year.  

As to the information to be reported in the CbC report for the year in which the merger/acquisition/demerger 
occurs, the accounting principles/standards (as determined in accordance with the guidance to identify the 
accounting principles/standards for determining the existence and membership of a group) will govern the 
determination as to the period for which the financial data of the merged/acquired/demerged Constituent 
Entities should be included in CbC reports of the relevant MNE Groups (e.g. a pro rata share or full year). 
In  accordance  with  the  flexibility  given  on  the  source  of  data  for  purposes  of  completing  Table  1,  the 
information reported in Table 1 may be taken from a source using different accounting principles/standards 
from those applied in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

There may be cases where a group (Acquired Group) is acquired by another group (Succeeding Group) 
on a date other than the Acquired Group's regular fiscal year end. For example, Acquired Group could 
prepare its regular financial statements on a calendar year basis, but be acquired by Succeeding Group 
on 30 June Y1. Assuming the Acquired Group had total consolidated group revenues in Y0 which were 
not less than 750 million EUR, whether the Acquired Group will be obligated to submit a CbC report for the 
period from 1 January Y1 to 30 June Y1 will depend upon whether it is required to prepare Consolidated 
Financial Statements for this period in the jurisdiction where its UPE is tax resident (or if the deemed listing 
provision applies). If there is no such requirement, then the Acquired Group will not be obligated to submit 
a CbC report for this period. In such a case, the Succeeding Group should in Table 3 of its CbC Report for 
Y1: a) indicate that the Succeeding Group acquired the Acquired Group and the date of acquisition; and, 
b) include the following statement: "The Acquired Group did not file a CbC report in any jurisdiction for the 
period  1  January  Y1  to  30  June  Y1".  Inclusive  Framework  members  are  encouraged  to  require  their 
taxpayers to provide the above information in Table 3 as soon as possible, taking into account the specific 
domestic circumstances.  

The following fact patterns illustrate the application of this guidance. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
46 |   

Fact Pattern #1 

In Y1, Group S sells a sub-group of its own entities. The sub-group of entities subsequently becomes an 
independent Group, Group E. 

1.2 How should Group S and Group E determine if they qualify as Excluded MNE Group(s) for Y1? 

In  order  to  determine  whether  a  Group  is  an  Excluded  MNE  Group  under  Article  1.3  of  the  Model 
Legislation, there is no need to adjust the consolidated group revenue for the preceding Fiscal Year 
due to a merger/acquisition/demerger occurring during the following year. Group S should be required 
to file a CbC report for Y1 if the total consolidated group revenue of Group S for Y0 was equal to or 
greater than 750 million euros (or near equivalent amount in local currency as of January 2015).  

In the case of Group E, the Action 13 minimum standard does not contain specific guidance on how to 
treat a group that was part of another MNE group in the previous fiscal year. Jurisdictions may take the 
view that, as Group E did not