dentified and taken into account in the comparability 
analysis  of  the  transaction  consisting  in  the  sales  of  cars  by  the  car 
manufacturer to its associated distributors, in selecting the most appropriate 
transfer pricing method for the transactions, and in selecting the tested party. 
The associated distributors purchasing the cars do not, however, acquire any 
right in the manufacturer’s patents. In such a case, the patents are used in the 
manufacturing and may affect the value of the cars, but the patents themselves 
are not transferred.

6.106.  As  another  example  of  the  use  of  intangibles  in  connection  with  a 
controlled transaction, assume that an exploration company has acquired or 
developed valuable geological data and analysis, and sophisticated exploratory 
software  and  know-how.  Assume  further  that  it  uses  those  intangibles  in 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

280 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

providing exploration services to an associated enterprise. Those intangibles 
should be identified and taken into account in the comparability analysis of 
the service transactions between the exploration company and the associated 
enterprise, in selecting the most appropriate transfer pricing method for the 
transaction,  and  in  selecting  the  tested  party.  Assuming  that  the  associated 
enterprise  of  the  exploration  company  does  not  acquire  any  rights  in  the 
exploration company’s intangibles, the intangibles are used in the performance 
of the services and may affect the value of services, but are not transferred.

D.  Supplemental guidance for determining arm’s length conditions in 

cases involving intangibles

6.107.  After  identifying  the  relevant  transactions  involving  intangibles, 
specifically  identifying  the  intangibles  involved  in  those  transactions, 
identifying  which  entity  or  entities  legally  own  the  intangibles  as  well  as 
those  that  contribute  to  the  value  of  the  intangibles,  it  should  be  possible  to 
identify  arm’s  length  conditions  for  the  relevant  transactions.  The  principles 
set out in Chapters I-III of these Guidelines should be applied in determining 
arm’s  length  conditions  for  transactions  involving  intangibles.  In  particular, 
the recommended nine-step process set out in paragraph 3.4 can be helpful in 
identifying arm’s length conditions for transactions involving intangibles. As an 
essential part of applying the principles of Chapter III to conduct a comparability 
analysis under the process described in paragraph 3.4, the principles contained 
in Sections A, B, and C of this Chapter VI should be considered.

6.108.  However, the principles of Chapters I-III can sometimes be difficult 
to  apply  to  controlled  transactions  involving  intangibles.  Intangibles  may 
have special characteristics that complicate the search for comparables, and in 
some cases make pricing difficult to determine at the time of the transaction. 
Further,  for  wholly  legitimate  business  reasons,  due  to  the  relationship 
between  them,  associated  enterprises  might  sometimes  structure  a  trans-
action involving intangibles in a manner that independent enterprises would 
not contemplate. See paragraph 1.11. The use or transfer of intangibles may 
raise challenging issues regarding comparability, selection of transfer pricing 
methods, and determination of arm’s length conditions for transactions. This 
Section D provides supplemental guidance for use in applying the principles 
of  Chapters  I-III  to  determine  arm’s  length  conditions  for  controlled 
transactions involving intangibles.

6.109.  Section  D.1  provides  general  supplemental  guidance  related  to  all 
transactions involving intangibles. Section D.2 provides supplemental guidance 
specifically  related  to  transactions  involving  the  transfer  of  intangibles  or 
rights  in  intangibles.  Section  D.3  provides  supplemental  guidance  regarding 
transfers of intangibles or rights in intangibles whose value is highly uncertain 
at  the  time  of  the  transfer.  Section  D.4  provides  an  approach  to  pricing 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 281

hard-to-value  intangibles.  Section  D.5  provides  supplemental  guidance 
applicable to transactions involving the use of intangibles in connection with 
the sale of goods or the provision of services in situations where there is no 
transfer of rights in the intangibles.

D.1. General principles applicable in transactions involving intangibles

6.110.  Section  D  of  Chapter  I  and  Chapter  III  contain  principles  to  be 
considered  and  a  recommended  process  to  be  followed  in  conducting  a 
comparability  analysis.  The  principles  described  in  those  sections  of  the 
Guidelines apply to all controlled transactions involving intangibles.

6.111. 
In applying the principles of the Gui