collect customer 
data,  have  its  own  effective  logistical  systems,  and  in  other  respects  have 
similar  intangibles  to  the  tested  party.  Where  that  is  the  case,  the  level  of 
comparability may be sufficiently high that it is possible to rely on prices paid 
or margins earned by the potential comparables as an appropriate measure 
of  arm’s  length  compensation  for  both  the  functions  performed  and  the 
intangibles owned by the tested party.

6.201.  Where the tested party and the potential comparable have comparable 
intangibles, the intangibles will not constitute unique and valuable intangibles 
within  the  meaning  of  paragraph  6.17,  and  therefore  no  comparability 
adjustments  will  be  required  with  regard  to  the  intangibles.  The  potential 
comparable  will,  in  these  circumstances,  provide  the  best  evidence  of  the 
profit  contribution  of  the  tested  party’s  intangibles.  If,  however,  either  the 
tested party or the potential comparable has and uses in its business unique 
and  valuable  intangibles,  it  may  be  necessary  either  to  make  appropriate 
comparability adjustments or to revert to a different transfer pricing method. 
The principles contained in Sections D.2.1 to D.2.4 apply in evaluating the 
comparability of intangibles in such situations.

6.202.  It is appropriate for both taxpayers and tax administrations to exercise 
restraint in rejecting potential comparables based on the use of intangibles by 
either the parties to potentially comparable transactions or by the tested party. 
Potential  comparables  should  generally  not  be  rejected  on  the  basis  of  the 
asserted existence of unspecified intangibles or on the basis of the asserted 
significance of goodwill. If identified transactions or companies are otherwise 
comparable,  they  may  provide  the  best  available  indication  of  arm’s  length 
pricing notwithstanding the existence and use by either the tested party or the 
parties  to  the  potentially  comparable  transactions  of  relatively  insignificant 
intangibles. Potentially comparable transactions should be disregarded on the 
basis of the existence and use of non-comparable intangibles only where the 
intangibles in question can be clearly and distinctly identified and where the 
intangibles are manifestly unique and valuable intangibles.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 309

D.5.2.  Determining arm’s length prices for transactions involving the 

use of intangibles in connection with the sale of goods or the 
performance of services

6.203.  The  principles  of  Chapters  I-III  apply  in  determining  arm’s  length 
prices  for  transactions  involving  the  use  of  intangibles  in  connection  with 
sales of goods or the performance of services. Two general categories of cases 
can arise. In the first category of cases, the comparability analysis, including 
the  functional  analysis,  will  reveal  the  existence  of  sufficiently  reliable 
comparables to permit the determination of arm’s length conditions for the 
transaction  using  a  transfer  pricing  method  based  on  comparables.  In  the 
second category of cases, the comparability analysis, including the functional 
analysis, will fail to identify reliable comparable uncontrolled transactions, 
often as a direct result of the use by one or both parties to the transaction of 
unique  and  valuable  intangibles.  Transfer  pricing  approaches  to  these  two 
categories of cases are described below.

D.5.2.1. Situations where reliable comparables exist

6.204.  It will often be the case that, notwithstanding the use of intangibles 
by one or both parties to a controlled sale of goods or provision of services, 
reliable comparables can be identified. Depending on the specific facts, any 
of  the  five  OECD  transfer  pricing  methods  described  in  Chapter  II  might 
constitute the most appropriate transfer pricing method where the transaction 
involves the use of intangibles in connection with a controlled sale of goods 
or provision of services and reliable comparables are present.
6.205.  Where the tested party does not use unique and valuable intangibles, 
and where reliable comparables can be identified, it will often be possible to 
determine arm’s length prices on the basis of one-sided methods including 
the  CUP,  resale  price,  cost  plus  and  TNMM  methods.  The  guidance  in 
Chapters I-III will generally be sufficient to guide the determination of arm’s 
length prices in such situations, without the need for a detailed analysis of the 
nature of the intangibles used by the other party to the transaction.
6.206.  The  principles  described  in  Sections  D.2.1  to  D.2.4  of  this  chapter 
should  be  applied  in  determining  whether  the  use  of  intangibles  by  the 
tested  party  will  preclude  reliance  on  identified  comparable  uncontrolled 
transactions or require com