ICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 35

would  most  likely  be  based  on  some  combination  of  costs,  assets,  payroll, 
and sales.

1.18.  Global  formulary  apportionment  should  not  be  confused  with  the 
transactional  profit  methods  discussed  in  Part  III  of  Chapter  II.  Global 
formulary apportionment would use a formula that is predetermined for all 
taxpayers to allocate profits whereas transactional profit methods compare, 
on  a  case-by-case  basis,  the  profits  of  one  or  more  associated  enterprises 
with  the  profit  experience  that  comparable  independent  enterprises  would 
have  sought  to  achieve  in  comparable  circumstances.  Global  formulary 
apportionment  also  should  not  be  confused  with  the  selected  application 
of a formula developed by both tax administrations in co-operation with a 
specific taxpayer or MNE group after careful analysis of the particular facts 
and circumstances, such as might be used in a mutual agreement procedure, 
advance pricing agreement, or other bilateral or multilateral determination. 
Such a formula is derived from the particular facts and circumstances of the 
taxpayer and thus avoids the globally pre-determined and mechanistic nature 
of global formulary apportionment.

C.2.  Comparison with the arm’s length principle

1.19.  Global formulary apportionment has been promoted as an alternative 
to the arm’s length principle by advocates who claim that it would provide 
greater  administrative  convenience  and  certainty  for  taxpayers.  These 
advocates also take the position that global formulary apportionment is more 
in keeping with economic reality. They argue that an MNE group must be 
considered  on  a  group-wide  or  consolidated  basis  to  reflect  the  business 
realities of the relationships among the associated enterprises in the group. 
They assert that the separate accounting method is inappropriate for highly 
integrated groups because it is difficult to determine what contribution each 
associated enterprise makes to the overall profit of the MNE group.

1.20.  Apart from these arguments, advocates contend that global formulary 
apportionment  reduces  compliance  costs  for  taxpayers  since  in  principle 
only one set of accounts would be prepared for the group for domestic tax 
purposes.

1.21.  OECD member countries do not accept these propositions and do not 
consider global formulary apportionment a realistic alternative to the arm’s 
length principle, for the reasons discussed below.

1.22.  The most significant concern with global formulary apportionment is 
the difficulty of implementing the system in a manner that both protects against 
double  taxation  and  ensures  single  taxation.  To  achieve  this  would  require 
substantial  international  co-ordination  and  consensus  on  the  predetermined 
formulae  to  be  used  and  on  the  composition  of  the  group  in  question.  For 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

36 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

example, to avoid double taxation there would have to be common agreement 
to  adopt  the  approach  in  the  first  instance,  followed  by  agreement  on  the 
measurement of the global tax base of an MNE group, on the use of a common 
accounting system, on the factors that should be used to apportion the tax base 
among different jurisdictions (including non-member countries), and on how 
to measure and weight those factors. Reaching such agreement would be time-
consuming and extremely difficult. It is far from clear that jurisdictions would 
be willing to agree to a universal formula.

1.23.  Even if some jurisdictions were willing to accept global formulary 
apportionment, there would be disagreements because each jurisdiction may 
want to emphasise or include different factors in the formula based on the 
activities  or  factors  that  predominate  in  its  jurisdiction.  Each  jurisdiction 
would  have  a  strong  incentive  to  devise  formulae  or  formula  weights 
that  would  maximise  that  jurisdiction’s  own  revenue.  In  addition,  tax 
administrations would have to consider jointly how to address the potential 
for artificially shifting the production factors used in the formula (e.g. sales, 
capital) to low tax jurisdiction. There could be tax avoidance to the extent 
that  the  components  of  the  relevant  formula  can  be  manipulated,  e.g.  by 
entering into unnecessary financial transactions, by the deliberate location of 
mobile assets, by requiring that particular companies within an MNE group 
maintain inventory levels in excess of what normally would be encountered 
in an uncontrolled company of that type, and so on.

1.24.  The transition to a global formulary apportionment system therefore 
would present enormous political and administrative complexity and require 
a level of international co-operation that is unrealistic to expect in the field 
of i