d  within  the 
same entity, although the MNE group position is protected. Where off-setting 
hedging contract instruments exist within the MNE group but not within the 
same entity, or where contract instruments do not exist within the MNE group 
but the MNE group position is protected (as may be the case with a natural 
hedge,  for  example),  it  would  be  inappropriate  to  match  the  hedges  within 
the same entity or recognise hedging transactions where written contracts do 
not exist without a comprehensive analysis of the accurate delineation of the 
actual transactions under Section D.1 of Chapter I (for example, the existence 
of a deliberate concerted action to engage in a hedge of a specific risk) and 
the commercial rationality of the transactions under Section D.2 of Chapter I.

D. Financial guarantees

10.154.  This  section  considers  financial  guarantees  on  certain  intra-group 
transactions.  To  consider  any  transfer  pricing  consequences  of  a  financial 
guarantee,  it  is  first  necessary  to  understand  the  nature  and  extent  of  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

434 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

obligations  guaranteed  and  the  consequences  for  all  parties,  accurately 
delineating the actual transaction in accordance with Section D.1 of Chapter I.

10.155.  In  general,  a  financial  guarantee  provides  for  the  guarantor  to 
meet  specified  financial  obligations  in  the  event  of  a  failure  to  do  so  by 
the guaranteed party. There are various terms in use for different types of 
credit support from one member of an MNE group to another. At one end of 
the spectrum is the formal written guarantee and at the other is the implied 
support attributable solely to membership in the MNE group. In the context 
of this section, a guarantee is a legally binding commitment on the part of 
the  guarantor  to  assume  a  specified  obligation  of  the  guaranteed  debtor  if 
the debtor defaults on that obligation. The situation likely to be encountered 
most frequently in a transfer pricing context is that in which an associated 
enterprise (guarantor) provides a guarantee on a loan taken out by another 
associated enterprise from an unrelated lender.

D.1. Accurate delineation of financial guarantees

D.1.1. Economic benefit derived from a financial guarantee

10.156.  The  accurate  delineation  of  financial  guarantees  requires  initial 
consideration of the economic benefit arising to the borrower beyond the one 
that derives from passive association, as explained in the Section C.1.1.3.

10.157.  From the borrower perspective, a financial guarantee may affect the 
terms of the borrowing – for instance, the existence of a guarantee may allow 
the guaranteed party to obtain a more favourable interest rate since the lender 
has access to a wider pool of assets –, or the amount of the borrowing – for 
instance, enabling the borrower to access a larger amount of funds.

D.1.1.1. Enhancement of the terms of the borrowing

10.158.  From  the  perspective  of  a  lender,  the  consequence  of  one  or  more 
explicit guarantees is that the guarantor(s) are legally committed; the lender’s 
risk would be expected to be reduced by having access to the assets of the 
guarantor(s) in the event of the borrower’s default. Effectively, this may mean 
that the guarantee allows the borrower to borrow on the terms that would be 
applicable if it had the credit rating of the guarantor rather than the terms it 
could  obtain  based  on  its  own,  non-guaranteed,  rating.  The  principles  and 
methodologies of pricing a guarantee in these circumstances are similar to 
those explained for loan pricing in Section C.1.2.

10.159.  Where the effect of an intra-group guarantee as accurately delineated 
is to reduce the cost of debt-funding for the borrower, it might be prepared 
to  pay  for  that  guarantee,  provided  it  was  in  no  worse  a  position  overall. 
In  considering  the  borrower’s  overall  financial  position  as  a  result  of  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 435

guarantee,  its  cost  of  borrowing  with  the  guarantee  (including  the  cost  of 
the guarantee and any associated costs of arranging the guarantee) would be 
measured against its non-guaranteed cost of borrowing, taking into account 
any implicit support. Borrowing with a guarantee might also affect terms and 
conditions of the loan other than price; each case will depend on its own facts 
and circumstances.

10.160.  Alternatively,  Chapter  I  analysis  may  indicate  that  the  purported 
financial guarantee is not providing any benefit to the borrower but merely 
recognising  the  benefit  that  the  guaranteed  party  would  have  obtained  in 
any case by being part of the MNE group. In such situations, based on facts 
and  circumstances,  an  unrelated  enterprise  in  comparable  circumstances 
would  be