g the achievement of predetermined financial thresholds such as sales 
or profits, or of predetermined development stages (e.g. royalty or periodic 
milestone payments). For example, a royalty rate could be set to increase as 
the sales of the licensee increase, or additional payments could be required 
at  such  time  as  certain  development  targets  are  successfully  achieved.  For 
a  transfer  of  intangibles  or  rights  in  intangibles  at  a  stage  when  they  are 
not  ready  to  be  commercialised  but  require  further  development,  payment 
terms  adopted  by  independent  parties  on  initial  transfer  might  include  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

302 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

determination of additional contingent amounts that would become payable 
only  on  the  achievement  of  specified  milestone  stages  in  their  further 
development.

6.184.  Also, independent enterprises may determine to assume the risk of 
unpredictable  subsequent  developments.  However,  the  occurrence  of  major 
events or developments unforeseen by the parties at the time of the transaction 
or the occurrence of foreseen events or developments considered to have a low 
probability of occurrence which change the fundamental assumptions upon 
which  the  pricing  was  determined  may  lead  to  renegotiation  of  the  pricing 
arrangements by agreement of the parties where it is to their mutual benefit. 
For  example,  a  renegotiation  might  occur  at  arm’s  length  if  a  royalty  rate 
based on sales for a patented drug turned out to be vastly excessive due to an 
unexpected development of an alternative low-cost treatment. The excessive 
royalty might remove the incentive of the licensee to manufacture or sell the 
drug at all, in which case the licensee will have an interest in renegotiat ing the 
agreement. It may be the case that the licensor has an interest in keeping the 
drug on the market and in retaining the same licensee to manufacture or sell 
the drug because of the skills and expertise of the licensee or the existence 
of  a  long-standing  co-operative  relationship  between  them.  Under  these 
circumstances,  the  parties  might  prospectively  renegotiate  to  their  mutual 
benefit all or part of the agreement and set a lower royalty rate. In any event, 
whether renegotiation would take place, would depend upon all the facts and 
circumstances of each case.

6.185. 
If  independent  enterprises  in  comparable  circumstances  would 
have agreed on the inclusion of a mechanism to address high uncertainty in 
valuing the intangible (e.g. a price adjustment clause), the tax administration 
should  be  permitted  to  determine  the  pricing  of  a  transaction  involving 
an  intangible  or  rights  in  an  intangible  on  the  basis  of  such  mechanism. 
Similarly,  if  independent  enterprises  in  comparable  circumstances  would 
have  considered  subsequent  events  so  fundamental  that  their  occurrence 
would have led to a prospective renegotiation of the pricing of a transaction, 
such events should also lead to a modification of the pricing of the transaction 
between associated enterprises.

D.4. Hard-to-value intangibles (HTVI)

6.186.  A tax administration may find it difficult to establish or verify what 
developments  or  events  might  be  considered  relevant  for  the  pricing  of  a 
transaction involving the transfer of intangibles or rights in intangibles, and 
the  extent  to  which  the  occurrence  of  such  developments  or  events,  or  the 
direction  they  take,  might  have  been  foreseen  or  reasonably  foreseeable  at 
the time the transaction was entered into. The developments or events that 
might  be  of  relevance  for  the  valuation  of  an  intangible  are  in  most  cases 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 303

strongly connected to the business environment in which that intangible is 
developed  or  exploited.  Therefore,  the  assessment  of  which  developments 
or  events  are  relevant  and  whether  the  occurrence  and  direction  of  such 
developments or events might have been foreseen or reasonably foreseeable 
requires  specialised  knowledge,  expertise  and  insight  into  the  business 
environment in which the intangible is developed or exploited. In addition, 
the assessments that are prudent to undertake when evaluating the transfer 
of  intangibles  or  rights  in  intangibles  in  an  uncontrolled  transaction,  may 
not be seen as necessary or useful for other than transfer pricing purposes 
by the MNE group when a transfer takes place within the group, with the 
result  that  those  assessments  may  not  be  comprehensive.  For  example,  an 
enterprise  may  transfer  intangibles  at  an  early  stage  of  development  to  an 
associated enterprise, set a royalty rate that does not reflect the value of the 
intangible at the time of the transfer, and later take