shifting 

CAA 

CbC 

GAAP 

G20 

IFRS 

Component authority agreement 

Country-by-Country 

Generally accepted accounting principles 

Group of twenty 

International financial reporting standards 

MCAA   

Multilateral component authority agreement 

MNE 

OECD    

QCAA 

SPE 

TIEA 

UPE 

Multinational enterprise 

Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 

Qualifying competent authority agreement 

Surrogate parent entity 

Tax information exchange agreement 

Ultimate parent entity

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 |   

1 Introduction 

All OECD and G20 countries have committed to implementing Country-by-Country reporting, as set out in 
the Action 13 Report “Transfer Pricing Documentation and Country-by-Country Reporting”. Recognising 
the  significant  benefits  that  CbC  reporting  can  offer  a  tax  administration  in  undertaking  high  level  risk 
assessment of transfer pricing and other BEPS related tax risks, a number of other jurisdictions have also 
committed to implementing CbC reporting (which with OECD members form the “Inclusive Framework”), 
including developing countries.  

Jurisdictions have agreed that implementing CbC reporting is a key priority in addressing BEPS risks, and 
the Action 13 Report recommended that reporting take place with respect to fiscal periods commencing 
from  1  January  2016.  Swift  progress  has  been  made  in  order  to  meet  this  timeline,  including  the 
introduction  of  domestic  legal  frameworks  and  the  entry  into  competent  authority  agreements  for  the 
international exchange of CbC reports. MNE Groups have likewise made preparations for CbC reporting, 
and  dialogue  between  governments  and  business  is  a  critical  aspect  of  ensuring  that  CbC  reporting  is 
implemented consistently across the globe. Consistent implementation will not only ensure a level playing 
field,  but  also  provide  certainty  for  taxpayers  and  improve  the  ability  of  tax  administrations  to  use  CbC 
reports in their risk assessment work.  

The  OECD  will  continue  to  support  the  consistent  and  swift  implementation  of  CbC  reporting.  Where 
questions of interpretation have arisen and would be best addressed through common public guidance, 
the OECD will endeavour to make this available. The guidance in this document is intended to assist in 
this regard.  

Some questions and answers refer to articles of the Model Legislation related to Country-
by-Country  Reporting  contained  in  the  Action  13  Report  ("Model  Legislation").  Such 
references do not mean that countries' domestic legislation should follow word-for-word the 
provisions in the Model Legislation. As indicated in paragraph 61 of the Action 13 Report 
"jurisdictions will be able to adapt this model legislation to their own legal systems, where 
changes to current legislation are required". Countries' domestic legal framework should 
however, be substantively consistent with the Model Legislation. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
  | 7 

2 Issues relating to the definition of 

items reported in the template for 
the CbC report 

Definition of revenues (April 2017, September 2017) 

1.1 Should extraordinary income and gains from investment activities be included in the 
column "Revenues" in the CbC report? 

Extraordinary income and gains from investment activities are to be included in "Revenues." 

1.2 When financial statements are used as the source of the data to complete the CbC 
template, which items shown in the financial statements should be reported as 
Revenues in Table 1? (cf. question 5 on fair value accounting). 

All revenue, gains, income, or other inflows shown in the financial statement prepared in accordance with 
the applicable accounting rules relating to profit and loss, such as the income statement or profit and loss 
statement, should be reported as Revenues in Table 1. For example, if the income statement prepared in 
accordance  with  the  applicable  accounting  rules  shows  sales  revenue,  net  capital  gains  from  sales  of 
assets, unrealized gains, interest received, and extraordinary income, the amount of those items reported 
in  the  income  statement  should  be  aggregated  and  reported  as  Revenues  in  Table  1.  Comprehensive 
income/earnings, revaluations, and/or unrealized gains reflected in net assets and the equity section of the 
balance sheet should not be reported as Revenues in Table 1. The amount of any income items shown on 
the income statement need not be adjusted from a net amount. 

Inclusive Framework members are expected to implement the above guidance as soon as possible, taking 
into  account  their  specific  domestic  circumstances.  It  is  recognised  that  time  may  be  needed  for  MNE 
Groups  to  take  this  guidance  into 