Circular No. 06 of 2017  

F. No. 142/11/2015-TPL 
Government of India 
Ministry of Finance 
Department of Revenue 
Central Board of Direct Taxes 
****** 

Dated: 24th January, 2017 

Subject:  Guiding  Principles 

for  determination  of  Place  of  Effective  

         Management (POEM) of a Company. 

Section 6(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (the Act), prior to  its amendment by the 
Finance  Act,  2015,    provided  that  a  company  is  said  to  be  resident  in  India  in  any 
previous  year,  if  it  is  an  Indian  company  or  if  during  that  year,  the  control  and 
management  of  its  affairs  is  situated  wholly  in  India.  This  allowed  tax  avoidance 
opportunities  for  companies  to  artificially  escape  the  residential  status  under  these 
provisions  by  shifting  insignificant  or  isolated  events  related  with  control  and 
management  outside  India.  To  address  these  concerns,  the  existing  provisions  of 
section 6(3) of the Act were amended vide Finance Act, 2015, with effect from 1st April, 
2016 to provide that a company is said to be resident in India in any previous year, if- 

(i) it is an Indian company; or 
(ii) its place of effective management in that year is in India . 

"Place of effective management" is defined in the Act to mean a place where key 
2. 
management  and  commercial  decisions  that  are  necessary  for  the  conduct  of  the 
business of an entity as a whole are, in substance, made. 

3. 
The  Finance  Act,  2016  has  changed  the  effectivity  of  the  said  amendment  to 
section 6(3) of the Act.  Therefore, the amended provision would now be effective from 
1st April 2017 and will apply to Assessment Year 2017-18 and subsequent assessment 
years. 

'Place of effective management' (POEM) is an internationally recognised test for 
4. 
determination of residence of a company incorporated in a foreign jurisdiction. Most of 
the  tax  treaties  entered  into  by  India  recognises  the  concept  of  'place  of  effective 
management'  for  determination  of  residence  of  a  company  as  a  tie-breaker  rule  for 
avoidance of double taxation. The guiding principles to be followed for determination of 
POEM are enumerated in the following paragraphs.  

5. 

For the purposes of these guidelines, - 

Page 1 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
(a)  A company shall be said to be engaged in  “active business outside India” if 
the passive income is not more than 50% of its total income; and  

(i) less than 50% of its total assets are situated in India; and 
(ii) less than 50% of total number of employees are situated in India or are 
resident in India; and 
(iii) the payroll expenses  incurred on  such employees is less than 50% of 
its total payroll expenditure. 
Explanation: For the aforesaid purpose, -  

(A) the income shall be, - 

(a) as computed for tax purpose in accordance with the laws of the 

country of incorporation; or 

(b) as  per  books  of  account,  where  the  laws  of  the  country  of 

incorporation does not require such a computation. 

(B) the value of assets, -  

(a) In  case  of  an  individually  depreciable  asset,  shall  be  the 
average  of  its  value  for  tax  purposes  in  the  country  of 
incorporation of the company at the beginning and at end of the 
previous year; and 

(b) In  case  of  pool  of  a  fixed  assets  being  treated  as  a  block  for 
depreciation,  shall be the average  of  its  value for tax  purposes 
in the country of incorporation of the company at the beginning 
and at end of the year; 

(c) In  case  of  any  other  asset,  shall  be  its  value  as  per  books  of 

account; 

(C) the  number  of  employees  shall  be  the  average  of  the  number  of 
employees  as  at  the  beginning  and  at  the  end  of  the  year  and  shall 
include  persons,  who  though  not  employed  directly  by  the  company, 
perform tasks similar to those performed by the employees; 

(D) the term “pay roll” shall include the cost of salaries, wages, bonus and 
all other employee compensation including related pension and social 
costs borne by the employer. 

(b) “Head Office” of a company would be the place where the company's senior 
management  and  their  direct  support  staff  are  located  or,  if  they  are  located  at 
more  than  one  location,  the  place  where  they  are  primarily  or  predominantly 
located. A company’s head office is not necessarily the same as the place where 
the majority of its employees work or where its board typically meets; 

(c) “Passive income” of a company shall be aggregate of, - 

(i) 

(ii) 

income from the transactions where both the purchase and sale of 
goods is from / to its associated enterprises;  and 
income by way of royalty, dividend, capital gains, interest or rental 
income; 

However, any income by way of interest shall not be considered to 
be passive income in case of a company which is engaged in the business 

Page 2 

  
 
 
 
