  unwilling  to  pay  for  the  provision  of  a  financial  guarantee,  and 
the guarantor would be found as providing no more than an administrative 
service to the borrower (see paragraph 10.164 and guidance in Chapter VII).

D.1.1.2. Access to a larger amount of borrowing
10.161.  Where  the  effect  of  a  guarantee  is  to  permit  a  borrower  to  borrow 
a  greater  amount  of  debt  than  it  could  in  the  absence  of  the  guarantee,  the 
guarantee is not simply supporting the credit rating of the borrower but could 
be acting both to increase the borrowing capacity and to reduce the interest 
rate on any existing borrowing capacity of the borrower. In such a situation 
there may be two issues – whether a portion of the loan from the lender to the 
borrower is accurately delineated as a loan from the lender to the guarantor 
(followed by an equity contribution from the guarantor to the borrower), and 
whether  the  guarantee  fee  paid  with  respect  to  the  portion  of  the  loan  that 
is  respected  as  a  loan  from  the  lender  to  the  borrower  is  arm’s  length.  The 
conclusion of an analysis of such transactions may be, taking into account the 
full facts and circumstances, that the evaluation of the guarantee fee should be 
limited to a fee on the portion that has been accurately delineated as a loan, and 
the remainder of the loan granted should be regarded as effectively a loan to the 
guarantor followed by an equity contribution by the guarantor to the borrower.

D.1.2. Effect of group membership
10.162.  This  section  elaborates  on  the  effect  of  group  membership  on 
determining the arm’s length price of financial guarantees, building upon the 
principles laid out in Section C.1.1.

10.163.  By  providing  an  explicit  guarantee  the  guarantor  is  exposed  to 
additional  risk  as  it  is  legally  committed  to  pay  if  the  borrower  defaults. 
Anything less than a legally binding commitment, such as a “letter of comfort” 
or other lesser form of credit support, involves no explicit assumption of risk. 
Each case will be dependent on its own facts and circumstances but generally, 
in the absence of an explicit guarantee, any expectation by any of the parties 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

436 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

that other members of the MNE group will provide support to an associated 
enterprise in respect of its borrowings will be derived from the borrower’s status 
as a member of the MNE group. For this purpose, whether a commitment from 
one MNE group member to another MNE group member to provide funding to 
meet its loan obligations, constitutes a letter of comfort or a guarantee depends 
on all the facts and circumstances, including whether the commitment provides 
the creditor relevant legal rights to enforce the commitment. The benefit of any 
such support attributable to the borrower’s MNE group member status would 
arise from passive association and not from the provision of a service for which 
a fee would be payable. See paragraph 7.13 on passive association.

10.164.  A  borrower  would  not  generally  be  prepared  to  pay  for  a  guarantee 
if it did not expect to obtain an appropriate benefit in return. Even an explicit 
guarantee will not necessarily confer a benefit on the borrower; for example, 
banking covenants applicable to a parent or other MNE group member’s debt 
facilities can include the default of another MNE group member as an event 
that  may  cause  the  termination  of  a  facility  or  other  adverse  consequences. 
Other legal, financial or operational ties may mean that it would not be possible 
to  abandon  the  borrower  if  it  encounters  financial  difficulty  without  the 
MNE group suffering a credit rating downgrade. Any of these circumstances 
may  produce  the  practical  result  that  MNE  group  members  are  financially 
interdependent  quite  apart  from  any  formal  guarantee  arrangement,  so  that 
the economic risk of the guarantor may not change materially on it giving an 
explicit guarantee. In other words, the formal guarantee may represent nothing 
more than an acknowledgement that it would be detrimental to the interests 
of the  MNE group not to support the performance of the borrower. In such 
circumstances the guaranteed borrower is not benefitting beyond the level of 
credit enhancement attributable to the implicit support of other MNE group 
members and no guarantee fee would be due.

10.165.  A similar issue arises in respect of cross-guarantees, where two or 
more entities in an MNE group guarantee each other’s obligations. From the 
lender’s perspective, it has access to the assets of every cross-guaranteeing 
entity  in  the  event  of  a  default  by  a  guaranteed  borrower.  This  potentially 
gives  the  lender  greater  comfort  than  a  single  guarantee  as  it  can  choose 
where  within  the  cross-guaranteeing  MNE  group  it  seeks,  if  necessary, 
