ng  of  the  associated
enterprise is not available;

loan  advanced 

the  associated
(b)   If  amount  of 
to  all  associated
loans 
enterprise 
enterprises  exceeds  a  sum  equivalent  to  two  hundred
and  fifty  crore  Indian  rupees  in  the  aggregate  as  on
31st March of the relevant previous year:

including 

to 

(i)   150  basis  points,  where 

the  associated
enterprise  has  a  credit  rating  of  AAA,  AA+,
AA, AA-, A+, A, A- or equivalent;

(ii)   300  basis  points,  where 

the  associated
enterprise  has  credit  rating  of  BBB+,  BBB,
BBB- or equivalent;
(iii)   450  basis  points,  where 

the  associated
enterprise  has  a  credit  rating  of  BB+,  BB,
BB-, B+, B, B- or equivalent;

(iv)   600  basis  points,  where 

the  associated
enterprise  has  credit  rating  of  C+,  C,  C-,  D
or equivalent or where the credit rating of the
associated enterprise is not available.]

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

Providing  corporate  guarantee
referred  to  in  sub-item  (a)  or
sub-item  (b)  of  item  (v)  of  rule
10TC.

The  commission  or  fee  declared  in  relation  to  the  eligible
international  transaction  is  at  the  rate  not  less  than  one  per  cent
per annum on the amount guaranteed.

Provision  of  contract  research
services
and 
development 
to
wholly  or  partly  relating 
software  development  referred
to in item (vi) of rule 10TC.

The operating profit margin declared by the eligible assessee from
the  eligible  international  transaction  in  relation  to  operating
expense incurred is not less than 24 per cent, where the value of
the  international  transaction  does  not  exceed  a  sum  of  32a[three]
hundred crore rupees.

Provision  of  contract  research
services
and 
development 
wholly  or  partly  relating 
to
generic  pharmaceutical  drugs
referred  to  in  item  (vii)  of  rule
10TC.

The operating profit margin declared by the eligible assessee from
the  eligible  international  transaction  in  relation  to  operating
expense incurred is not less than 24 per cent, where the value of
the  international  transaction  does  not  exceed  a  sum  of  32a[three]
hundred crore rupees.

Manufacture  and  export  of  core
auto  components  referred  to  in
item (viii) of rule 10TC.

The operating profit margin declared by the eligible assessee from
the  eligible  international  transaction  in  relation  to  operating
expense is not less than 12 per cent.

Manufacture and export of non-
core  auto  components  referred
to in item (ix) of rule 10TC.

The operating profit margin declared by the eligible assessee from
the  eligible  international  transaction  in  relation  to  operating
expense is not less than 8.5 per cent.

https://incometaxindia.gov.in/Rules/Income-Tax Rules/103120000000009915.htm

4/5

10/19/25, 10:30 AM

Safe Harbour

11.

Receipt  of  low  value-adding
intragroup  services  in  item  (x)
of rule 10TC.

The  entire  value  of  the  international  transaction,  including  a
mark-up not exceeding 5 per cent, does not exceed a sum of ten
crore rupees:
Provided  that  the  method  of  cost  pooling,  the  exclusion  of
shareholder costs and duplicate costs from the cost pool and the
reasonableness of the allocation keys used for allocation of costs
to the assessee by the overseas associated enterprise, is certified
by an accountant.]

36[Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-rule,—

(a)   "reference rate" means,—

(i)   for  US  dollar,  6-month  Term  Secured  Overnight  Financing  Rate  (SOFR),  currently
administered by Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), as increased by 45 basis points;
(ii)   for  Euro,  6-month  Euro  Inter  Bank  Offered  Rate  (EURIBOR),  currently  administered  by

European Money Markets Institute;

(iii)   for  UK  Pound  Sterling,  6-month  Term  Sterling  Overnight  Index  Average  (SONIA),
currently  administered  by  ICE  Benchmark  Administration/Refinitiv,  as  increased  by  30
basis points;

(iv)   for Japanese Yen, 6-month Tokyo Term Risk Free Rate (TORF), currently benchmarked by

QUICK Benchmarks Inc, as increased by 10 basis points;

(v)   for  Australian  dollar,  6-month  Bank  Bill  Swap  Rates  (BBSW)  currently  administered  by

Australian Securities Exchange; and

(vi)   for  Singapore  dollar,  6-month  Compounded  Singapore  Overnight  Rate Average  (SORA),
currently  administered  by  Monetary  Autho-  rity  of  Singapore,  as  increased  by  45  basis
points;

(b)   "credit  rating"  means  the  credit  rating  assigned  to  the  associated  enterprise  by  a  Securities  and
Exchange  Board  of  India  registered  and  Reserve  Bank  of  India  accredited  credit  rating  agency
which is applicable for the relevant previous year, so however that—

(i)   where the associated enterprise has only one credit rating, then such rating shall be taken

as its credit rating; and

(ii)   where the associated enterprise has a credit rating from more than one such credit rating

agency, then the least of s