stration 
does not share the same views as to how the transaction should be structured. 
It  should  again  be  noted  that  the  mere  fact  that  the  transaction  may  not 
be  seen  between  independent  parties  does  not  mean  that  it  does  not  have 
characteristics of an arm’s length arrangement.

1.144.  The structure that for transfer pricing purposes, replaces that actually 
adopted  by  the  taxpayers  should  comport  as  closely  as  possible  with  the 
facts of the actual transaction undertaken whilst achieving a commercially 
rational expected result that would have enabled the parties to come to a price 
acceptable to both of them at the time the arrangement was entered into.

1.145.  The criterion for non-recognition may be illustrated by the following 
examples.

Example 1

1.146.  Company S1 carries on a manufacturing business that involves holding 
substantial  inventory  and  a  significant  investment  in  plant  and  machinery. 
It  owns  commercial  property  situated  in  an  area  prone  to  increasingly 
frequent flooding in recent years. Third-party insurers experience significant 
uncertainty  over  the  exposure  to  large  claims,  with  the  result  that  there  is 
no  active  market  for  the  insurance  of  properties  in  the  area.  Company  S2, 
an  associated  enterprise,  provides  insurance  to  Company  S1,  and  an  annual 
premium representing 80% of the value of the inventory, property and contents 
is paid by Company S1. In this example S1 has entered into a commercially 
irrational transaction since there is no market for insurance given the likelihood 
of  significant  claims,  and  either  relocation  or  not  insuring  may  be  more 
attractive realistic alternatives. Since the transaction is commercially irrational, 
there is not a price that is acceptable to both S1 and S2 from their individual 
perspectives.

1.147.  Under  the  guidance  in  this  section,  the  transaction  should  not  be 
recognised. S1 is treated as not purchasing insurance and its profits are not 
reduced  by  the  payment  to  S2;  S2  is  treated  as  not  issuing  insurance  and 
therefore not being liable for any claim.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 77

Example 2

1.148.  Company  S1  conducts  research  activities  to  develop  intangibles 
that it uses to create new products that it can produce and sell. It agrees to 
transfer to an associated company, Company S2, unlimited rights to all future 
intangibles  which  may  arise  from  its  future  work  over  a  period  of  twenty 
years for a lump sum payment. The arrangement is commercially irrational 
for both parties since neither Company S1 nor Company S2 has any reliable 
means to determine whether the payment reflects an appropriate valuation, 
both because it is uncertain what range of development activities Company S1 
might conduct over the period and also because valuing the potential outcomes 
would  be  entirely  speculative.  Under  the  guidance  in  this  section,  the 
structure of the arrangement adopted by the taxpayer, including the form of 
payment, should be modified for the purposes of the transfer pricing analysis. 
The  replacement  structure  should  be  guided  by  the  economically  relevant 
characteristics,  including  the  functions  performed,  assets  used,  and  risks 
assumed, of the commercial or financial relations of the associated enterprises. 
Those facts would narrow the range of potential replacement structures to the 
structure most consistent with the facts of the case (for example, depending 
on those facts the arrangement could be recast as the provision of financing 
by Company S2, or as the provision of research services by Company S1, or, 
if specific intangibles can be identified, as a licence with contingent payments 
terms for the development of those specific intangibles, taking into account 
the guidance on hard-to-value intangibles as appropriate).

D.3.  Losses

1.149.  When an associated enterprise consistently realises losses while the 
MNE  group  as  a  whole  is  profitable,  the  facts  could  trigger  some  special 
scrutiny  of  transfer  pricing  issues.  Of  course,  associated  enterprises,  like 
independent  enterprises,  can  sustain  genuine  losses,  whether  due  to  heavy 
start-up  costs,  unfavourable  economic  conditions,  inefficiencies,  or  other 
legitimate business reasons. However, an independent enterprise would not 
be  prepared  to  tolerate  losses  that  continue  indefinitely.  An  independent 
enterprise  that  experiences  recurring  losses  will  eventually  cease  to 
undertake business on such terms. In contrast, an associated enterprise that 
realises  losses  may  remain  in  business  if  the  business  is  beneficial  to  the 
MNE group as a whole.

1.150.  The  fact  that  there  is  an  enterprise  making  losses  that  is  doing 
business  with  profitable  members  