n-making required in relation to its continued 
contributions to the CCA to key operational developments that may impact 
the specific risks it assumes under the CCA. A development CCA in which 
benefits are uncertain and distant is likely to give rise to greater risks than 
does a services CCA in which benefits are current.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

344 – CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS

8.17.  As described in the previous paragraphs, it is not necessary for the 
CCA  participants  to  perform  all  of  the  CCA  activities  through  their  own 
personnel. In some cases, the participants in a CCA may decide to outsource 
certain functions related to the subject activity to a separate entity that is not 
a participant under the standard of paragraph 8.14 above. In such situations, 
the  participants  to  the  CCA  should  individually  meet  the  requirements  on 
exercising control over the specific risks they assume under the CCA. Such 
requirements  include  exercising  control  over  the  outsourced  functions  by 
at  least  one  of  the  participants  to  the  CCA.  In  circumstances  in  which  the 
objective of the CCA is to develop an intangible, at least one of the participants 
to  the  CCA  should  also  exercise  control  over  the  important  development, 
enhancement,  maintenance,  protection  and  exploitation  functions  that  are 
outsourced.  When  the  contribution  of  a  participant  to  the  CCA  consists  of 
activities  other  than  controlling  the  outsourced  functions,  the  guidance  in 
paragraph 8.15 is relevant for assessing whether this party has the functional 
capability to exercise control over the specific risks it assumes under the CCA, 
in particular if these risks are closely linked to the outsourced functions.

8.18. 
In  cases  where  CCA  activities  are  outsourced,  an  arm’s  length 
charge  would  be  appropriate  to  compensate  the  entity  for  services  or  other 
contributions being rendered to the CCA participants. Where the entity is an 
associated enterprise of one or more of the CCA participants, the arm’s length 
charge  would  be  determined  under  the  general  principles  of  Chapters  I-III, 
including inter alia consideration of functions performed, assets used, and risks 
assumed, as well as the special considerations affecting an arm’s length charge 
for services and/or in relation to any intangibles, as described in Chapter VII 
and Chapter VI (including the guidance on hard-to-value intangibles).

C.3. Expected benefits from the CCA

8.19.  The relative shares of expected benefits might be estimated based on 
the anticipated additional income generated or costs saved or other benefits 
received by each participant as a result of the arrangement. An approach that 
is frequently used in practice, most typically for services CCAs, would be 
to  reflect  the  participants’  proportionate  shares  of  expected  benefits  using 
a relevant allocation key. The possibilities for allocation keys include sales 
(turnover), profits, units used, produced, or sold; number of employees, and 
so forth.

8.20.  To  the  extent  that  a  material  part  or  all  of  the  benefits  of  a  CCA 
activity are expected to be realised in the future and not solely in the year 
the costs are incurred, most typically for development CCAs, the allocation 
of  contributions  will  take  account  of  projections  about  the  participants’ 
shares of those benefits. The use of projections may raise problems for tax 
administrations in verifying the assumptions based on which projections have 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS – 345

been made and in dealing with cases where the projections vary markedly 
from the actual results. These problems may be exacerbated where the CCA 
activity ends several years before the expected benefits actually materialise. 
It may be appropriate, particularly where benefits are expected to be realised 
in the future, for a CCA to provide for possible adjustments of proportionate 
shares of contributions over the term of the CCA on a prospective basis to 
reflect  changes  in  relevant  circumstances  resulting  in  changes  in  relative 
shares  of  benefits.  In  situations  where  the  actual  shares  of  benefits  differ 
markedly from projections, tax administrations might be prompted to enquire 
whether  the  projections  made  would  have  been  considered  acceptable  by 
independent  enterprises  in  comparable  circumstances,  taking  into  account 
all  the  developments  that  were  reasonably  foreseeable  by  the  participants, 
without  using  hindsight.  When  the  expected  benefits  of  a  CCA  consist  of 
a right in an intangible that is hard to value at the start of the development 
project  or  if  pre-existing  intangibles  that  are  hard  to  value  are  part  of 
the  contributions  to  the  CCA  project,  the  guidance 