t  permitted  under  applicable  law,  each  Competent 
3. 
Authority will notify the other Competent Authority immediately regarding 
of any cases of non-compliance with the paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Section, 
including any remedial actions, as well as any measures taken in respect of 
non-compliance with the above-mentioned paragraphs.

SECTION 6
Consultations

In case an adjustment of the taxable income of a Constituent Entity, 
1. 
as a result of further enquiries based on the data in the CbC Report, leads to 
undesirable economic outcomes, including if such cases arise for a specific 
business,  both  Competent  Authorities  shall  consult  each  other  and  discuss 
with the aim of resolving the case.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

598 – ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

2. 
If  any  difficulties  in  the  implementation  or  interpretation  of  this 
Agreement  arise,  either  Competent  Authority  may  request  consultations 
with of the other Competent Authority to develop appropriate measures to 
ensure that this Agreement is fulfilled. In particular, a Competent Authority 
shall consult with the other Competent Authority before the first-mentioned 
Competent Authority determines that there is a systemic failure to exchange 
CbC Reports with the other Competent Authority.

SECTION 7
Amendments

This  Agreement  may  be  amended  by  consensus  by  written  agreement 
of  the  Competent  Authorities.  Unless  otherwise  agreed  upon,  such  an 
amendment is effective on the first day of the month following the expiration 
of a period of one month after the date of the last signature of such written 
agreement.

SECTION 8
Term of Agreement

1. 
This Agreement will come into effect on […/the date of the later of 
the notifications provided by each Competent Authority that its Jurisdiction 
either has the necessary laws in place to require Reporting Entities to file a 
CbC Report].

2. 
A  Competent  Authority  may  temporarily  suspend  the  exchange  of 
information  under  this  Agreement  by  giving  notice  in  writing  to  the  other 
Competent Authority that it has determined that there is or has been significant 
non-compliance by the other Competent Authority with this Agreement. Before 
making such a determination, the first-mentioned Competent Authority shall 
consult with the other Competent Authority. For the purposes of this paragraph, 
significant non-compliance means non-compliance with paragraphs 1 and 2 of 
Section 5 and paragraph 1 of Section 6 of this Agreement and the provisions of 
the TIEA referred to therein, as well as a failure by the Competent Authority 
to provide timely or adequate information as required under this Agreement. A 
suspension will have immediate effect and will last until the second-mentioned 
Competent Authority establishes in a manner acceptable to both Competent 
Authorities  that  there  has  been  no  significant  non-compliance  or  that  the 
second-mentioned  Competent  Authority  has  adopted  relevant  measures  that 
address the significant non-compliance.

Either Competent Authority may terminate this Agreement by giving 
3. 
notice  of  termination  in  writing  to  the  other  Competent  Authority.  Such 
termination will become effective on the first day of the month following the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 599

expiration of a period of 12 months after the date of the notice of termination. 
In  the  event  of  termination,  all  information  previously  received  under  this 
Agreement will remain confidential and subject to the terms of the TIEA.

Signed in duplicate in […] on […].

Competent Authority for
[Jurisdiction A]

Competent Authority for
[Jurisdiction B]

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 601

Annex I to Chapter VI 

Examples to illustrate the guidance on intangibles

Example 1

Premiere is the parent company of an MNE group. Company S is a 
1. 
wholly owned subsidiary of Premiere and a member of the Premiere group. 
Premiere funds R&D and performs ongoing R&D functions in support of its 
business operations. When its R&D functions result in patentable inventions, 
it is the practice of the Premiere group that all rights in such inventions be 
assigned  to  Company  S  in  order  to  centralise  and  simplify  global  patent 
administration. All patent registrations are held and maintained in the name 
of Company S.

Company S employs three lawyers to perform its patent administration 
2. 
work  and  has  no  other  employees.  Company  S  does  not  conduct  or  control 
any of the R&D activities of the Premiere group. Company S has no technical 
R&D personnel, nor does it incur any of the Premiere group’s R&D expense. 
Key  decisions  related  to  defending  the  patents  are  made  by  Premiere 
management, af