ding on the economically 
relevant characteristics of the transaction. The risk will, for example, be lower 
when the party to which the funding is provided has a high creditworthiness, 
or  when  assets  are  pledged,  or  when  the  investment  funded  is  low  risk, 
compared with the risk where the creditworthiness is lower, or the funding is 
unsecured, or the investment being funded is high risk. Moreover, the larger 
the amount of the funds provided, the larger the potential impact of the risk 
on the provider of the funding.

6.61.  Under  the  principles  of  Section  D.1.2  of  Chapter  I,  the  first  step  in 
a  transfer  pricing  analysis  in  relation  to  risks  is  to  identify  the  economically 
significant  risks  with  specificity.  When  identifying  risks  in  relation  to  an 
investment with specificity, it is important to distinguish between the financial 
risks  that  are  linked  to  the  funding  provided  for  the  investments  and  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

266 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

operational  risks  that  are  linked  to  the  operational  activities  for  which  the 
funding is used, such as for example the development risk when the funding is 
used for developing a new intangible. Where a party providing funding exercises 
control over the financial risk associated with the provision of funding, without 
the assumption of, including the control over, any other specific risk, it could 
generally only expect a risk-adjusted return on its funding.

6.62.  The  contractual  arrangements  will  generally  determine  the  terms 
of  the  funding  transaction,  as  clarified  or  supplemented  by  the  economic 
characteristics of the transaction as reflected in the conduct of the parties.5 
The return that would generally be expected by the funder should equal an 
appropriate risk-adjusted return. Such return can be determined, for example, 
based on the cost of capital or the return of a realistic alternative investment 
with  comparable  economic  characteristics.  In  determining  an  appropriate 
return  for  the  funding  activities,  it  is  important  to  consider  the  financing 
options realistically available to the party receiving the funds. There may be a 
difference between the return expected by the funder on an ex ante basis and 
the actual return received on an ex post basis. For example, when the funder 
provides  a  loan  for  a  fixed  amount  at  a  fixed  interest  rate,  the  difference 
between the actual and expected returns will reflect the risk playing out that 
the borrower cannot make some or all of the payments due.

6.63.  The  extent  and  form  of  the  activities  that  will  be  necessary  to 
exercise control over the financial risk attached to the provision of funding 
will  depend  on  the  riskiness  of  the  investment  for  the  funder,  taking  into 
account  the  amount  of  money  at  stake  and  the  investment  for  which  these 
funds  are  used.  In  accordance  with  the  definition  of  control  as  reflected 
in  paragraphs  1.65  and  1.66  of  these  Guidelines,  exercising  control  over  a 
specific financial risk requires the capability to make the relevant decisions 
related  to  the  risk  bearing  opportunity,  in  this  case  the  provision  of  the 
funding,  together  with  the  actual  performance  of  these  decision  making 
functions.  In  addition,  the  party  exercising  control  over  the  financial  risk 
must perform the activities as indicated in paragraph 1.65 and 1.66 in relation 
to the day-to-day risk mitigation activities related to these risks when these 
are outsourced and related to any preparatory work necessary to facilitate its 
decision making, if it does not perform these activities itself.

6.64.  When  funding  is  provided  to  a  party  for  the  development  of  an 
intangible, the relevant decisions relating to taking on, laying off or declining 
a risk bearing opportunity and the decisions on whether and how to respond 

5. 

Further guidance will be provided on the economically relevant characteristics 
for determining the arm’s length conditions for financial transactions, including 
when  the  funding  is  used  for  project  finance,  in  particular  investments  in  the 
development of intangibles. This work will be undertaken in 2016 and 2017.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 267

to the risks associated with the opportunity, are the decisions related to the 
provision of funding and the conditions of the transaction. Depending on the 
facts and circumstances, such decisions may depend on an assessment of the 
creditworthiness of the party receiving the funds and an assessment of how 
the risks related to the development project may impact the expectations in 
relation to the returns on funding provided or additional funding required. 
The  conditions  underlying  the  provision  of  the  funding  may  include