the controlled 
transaction. In effect, independent parties in comparable circumstances would 
not base their pricing decision on historical data alone.

3.70. 
In other instances, taxpayers might test the actual outcome of their 
controlled transactions to demonstrate that the conditions of these transactions 
were  consistent  with  the  arm’s  length  principle,  i.e.  on  an  ex  post  basis 
(hereinafter “the arm’s length outcome-testing” approach). Such test typically 
takes place as part of the process for establishing the tax return at year-end.

3.71.  Both  the  arm’s  length  price-setting  and  the  arm’s  length  outcome-
testing  approaches,  as  well  as  combinations  of  these  two  approaches,  are 
found  among  OECD  member  countries.  The  issue  of  double  taxation  may 
arise  where  a  controlled  transaction  takes  place  between  two  associated 
enterprises  where  different  approaches  have  been  applied  and  lead  to 
different  outcomes,  for  instance  because  of  a  discrepancy  between  market 
expectations  taken  into  account  in  the  arm’s  length  price-setting  approach 
and actual outcomes observed in the arm’s length outcome-testing approach. 
See  paragraphs  4.38  and  4.39.  Competent  authorities  are  encouraged  to 
use  their  best  efforts  to  resolve  any  double  taxation  issues  that  may  arise 
from different approaches adopted by jurisdictions to year-end adjustments 
and  that  may  be  submitted  to  them  under  a  mutual  agreement  procedure 
(Article 25 of the OECD Model Tax Convention).

B.3.  Valuation highly uncertain at the outset and unpredictable 

events

3.72.  The  question  arises  whether  and  if  so  how  to  take  account  in  the 
transfer  pricing  analysis  of  future  events  that  were  unpredictable  at  the 
time of the testing of a controlled transaction, in particular where valuation 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS – 169

at  that  time  was  highly  uncertain.  The  question  should  be  resolved,  both 
by  taxpayers  and  tax  administrations,  by  reference  to  what  independent 
enterprises would have done in comparable circumstances to take account of 
the valuation uncertainty in the pricing of the transaction.

3.73.  The reasoning that is found in paragraphs 6.181-6.185, which provide 
guidance on the arm’s length pricing of transactions involving intangibles for 
which valuation is highly uncertain at the time of the transactions, applies by 
analogy to other types of transactions with valuation uncertainties. The main 
question is to determine whether the valuation was sufficiently uncertain at the 
outset that the parties at arm’s length would have required a price adjustment 
mechanism, or whether the change in value was so fundamental a development 
that it would have led to a renegotiation of the transaction. Where this is the 
case, the tax administration would be justified in determining the arm’s length 
price for the transaction on the basis of the adjustment clause or re-negotiation 
that  would  be  provided  at  arm’s  length  in  a  comparable  uncontrolled 
transaction. In other circumstances, where there is no reason to consider that 
the  valuation  was  sufficiently  uncertain  at  the  outset  that  the  parties  would 
have required a price adjustment clause or would have renegotiated the terms 
of the agreement, there is no reason for tax administrations to make such an 
adjustment as it would represent an inappropriate use of hindsight. The mere 
existence  of  uncertainty  should  not  require  an  ex  post  adjustment  without  a 
consideration  of  what  independent  enterprises  would  have  done  or  agreed 
between them.

B.4.  Data from years following the year of the transaction

3.74.  Data  from  years  following  the  year  of  the  transaction  may  also  be 
relevant  to  the  analysis  of  transfer  prices,  but  care  must  be  taken  to  avoid 
the  use  of  hindsight.  For  example,  data  from  later  years  may  be  useful  in 
comparing  product  life  cycles  of  controlled  and  uncontrolled  transactions 
for  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  the  uncontrolled  transaction  is  an 
appropriate comparable to use in applying a particular method. The conduct 
of  the  parties  in  years  following  the  transaction  will  also  be  relevant  in 
accurately delineating the actual transaction.

B.5.  Multiple year data

3.75. 
In  practice,  examining  multiple  year  data  is  often  useful  in  a 
comparability analysis, but it is not a systematic requirement. Multiple year 
data should be used where they add value to the transfer pricing analysis. It 
would  not  be  appropriate  to  set  prescriptive  guidance  as  to  the  number  of 
years to be covered by multiple year analyses.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

170 – CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS

3.76. 
In order to obtain a comp