o  ensure  implementation,  such  laws  must  be  reinforced  by 
adequate administrative resources and procedures.

3.1 Penalties and Sanctions

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Penalties imposed for unauthorised disclosures
•  Risk mitigation practices

Does your tax administration have the ability to impose penalties for unauthorised 
disclosures of confidential information? Do the penalties extend to unauthorised disclosure 
of confidential information exchanged with a treaty or TIEA partner? Are the penalties 
publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

3.2.1 Policing Unauthorised Access and Disclosure

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Monitoring to detect breaches
•  Reporting of breaches

What procedures does your tax administration have to monitor confidentiality breaches? 
What policies and procedures does your tax administration have that require employees 
and contractors to report actual or potential breaches of confidentiality? What reports does 
your tax administration prepare when a breach of confidentiality occurs? Are these policies 
and procedures publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a 
summary.

3.2.2 Sanctions and Prior Experience

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Prior unauthorised disclosures
•  Policy/process modifications to prevent future breaches

Have there been any cases in your jurisdiction where confidential information has been 
improperly disclosed? Have there been any cases in your jurisdiction where confidential 
information received by the Competent Authority from an exchange of information partner 
has been disclosed other than in accordance with the terms of the instrument under which 
it was provided? Does your tax administration or Inspector General make available to the 
public descriptions of any breaches, any penalties/sanctions imposed, and changes put in 
place to mitigate risk and prevent future breaches? If so, please provide a reference. If not, 
please provide a summary.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 587

Competent Authority Agreement on the Exchange of 
Country-by-Country Reports on the basis of  
a Double Tax Convention (“DTC CAA”)

Whereas,  the  Government  of  [Jurisdiction  A]  and  the  Government 
of  [Jurisdiction  B]  desire  to  increase  international  tax  transparency  and 
improve access of their respective tax authorities to information regarding the 
global allocation of the income, the taxes paid, and certain indicators of the 
location of economic activity among tax jurisdictions in which Multinational 
Enterprise (MNE) Groups operate through the automatic exchange of annual 
CbC Reports, with a view to assessing high-level transfer pricing risks and 
other base erosion and profit shifting related risks, as well as for economic 
and statistical analysis, where appropriate;

Whereas,  the  laws  of  their  respective  Jurisdictions  require  or  are 
expected to require the Reporting Entity of an MNE Group to annually file 
a CbC Report;

Whereas,  the  CbC  Report  is  intended  to  be  part  of  a  three-tiered 
structure,  along  with  a  global  master  file  and  a  local  file,  which  together 
represent a standardised approach to transfer pricing documentation which 
will  provide  tax  administrations  with  relevant  and  reliable  information  to 
perform an efficient and robust transfer pricing risk assessment analysis;

Whereas,  Article  […]  of 

the  Income  Tax  Convention  between 
[Jurisdiction  A]  and  [Jurisdiction  B]  (the  “Convention”),  authorises  the 
exchange of information for tax purposes, including the automatic exchange 
of  information,  and  allows  the  competent  authorities  of  [Jurisdiction  A] 
and  [Jurisdiction  B]  (the  “Competent  Authorities”)  to  agree  the  scope  and 
modalities of such automatic exchanges;

Whereas,  [Jurisdiction  A]  and  [Jurisdiction  B]  [have/are  expected  to 
have/have, or are expected to have,] in place by the time the first exchange 
of  CbC  Reports  takes  place  (i)  appropriate  safeguards  to  ensure  that  the 
information  received  pursuant  to  this  Agreement  remains  confidential  and 
is  used  for  the  purposes  of  assessing  high-level  transfer  pricing  risks  and 
other base erosion and profit shifting related risks, as well as for economic 
and statistical analysis, where appropriate, in accordance with Section 5 of 
this Agreement, (ii) the infrastructure for an effective exchange relationship 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

588 – ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

(including  established  processes  for  ensuring 
timely,  accurate,  and 
confidential information exchanges, effective and reliable communications, 
and capabilities to promptly resolve questions and concerns about exchanges 
or requests for exchanges an