inions

10.107.  In  some  circumstances  taxpayers  may  seek  to  evidence  the  arm’s 
length rate of interest on an intra-group loan by producing written opinions 
from independent banks, sometimes referred to as a “bankability” opinion, 
stating what interest rate the bank would apply were it to make a comparable 
loan to that particular enterprise.

10.108.  Such an approach would represent a departure from an arm’s length 
approach based on comparability since it is not based on comparison of actual 
transactions. Furthermore, it is also important to bear in mind the fact that 
such letters do not constitute an actual offer to lend. Before proceeding to 
make a loan, a commercial lender will undertake the relevant due diligence 
and approval processes that would precede a formal loan offer. Such letters 
would  not  therefore  generally  be  regarded  as  providing  evidence  of  arm’s 
length terms and conditions.

C.2. Cash pooling

C.2.1. Cash pooling structures

10.109.  The use of a cash pool is popular among multinational enterprises 
as a way of achieving more efficient cash management by bringing together, 
either  physically  or  notionally,  the  balances  on  a  number  of  separate  bank 
accounts.  Depending  on  the  particular  arrangements  in  place,  a  cash  pool 
can help to achieve more effective liquidity management, whereby reliance 
on external borrowing can be reduced or, where there is a cash surplus, an 
enhanced return may be earned on any aggregated cash balance. Financing 
costs may also be reduced by eliminating the bank spread embedded in the 
interest which would be payable or receivable on a number of separate debit 
or credit account balances and by reducing banking transaction costs.

10.110.  In  the  context  of  this  section,  cash  pooling  is  the  pooling  of  cash 
balances  as  part  of  a  short-term  liquidity  management  arrangement.  Cash 
pool  arrangements  are  complex  contracts  which  may  involve  controlled  and 
uncontrolled  transactions.  For  instance,  one  common  structure  is  that  the 
participating members of the MNE group conclude a contract with an unrelated 
bank that renders cash pooling services, and each participating member opens 
a bank account with that bank.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

426 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

10.111.  Although there are two basic types of cash pooling arrangements – 
physical and notional – other variations and combinations may be arranged to 
meet specific business needs. For example, a number of physical pools might 
be held, one for each currency in which the business operates, along with a 
notional pool which then combines those individual currency pools.

C.2.1.1. Physical pooling

10.112.  In a typical physical pooling arrangement, the bank account balances 
of all the pool members are transferred daily to a single central bank account 
owned by the cash pool leader. Any account in deficit is brought to a target 
balance (usually zero) by a transfer from the master account to the relevant 
sub account. Depending on whether there is a surplus or a deficit after the 
members’ accounts have been adjusted to the target balance, the cash pool 
leader may borrow from the bank to meet the net funding requirement of the 
pool or deposit any surplus as appropriate.

C.2.1.2. Notional pooling

10.113.  In a notional cash pool, some of the benefits of combining credit and 
debit balances of several accounts are achieved without any physical transfer 
of balances between the participating members’ accounts although the bank 
will  usually  require  cross-guarantees  from  pool  participants  to  enable  the 
right to set off between accounts if necessary. The bank notionally aggregates 
the various balances of the individual accounts of participating members and 
pays or charges interest according to the net balance, either to a designated 
master account or to all participating accounts under a formula determined 
in the cash pooling agreement.

10.114.  With no physical transfers of funds, the transactional costs of operating 
a  notional  pool  are  likely  to  be  less  than  transactional  costs  of  operating  a 
physical pool. Functions carried out by the bank would be accounted for in 
the charges or interest rate of the bank. With minimal functions carried out 
by the pool leader (because functions are primarily performed by the bank), 
there will be little, if any, value added by the pool leader to be reflected in 
the intra-group pricing. An appropriate allocation of the benefit created as a 
result of the elimination of the bank spread and/or the optimisation of a single 
debit or credit position would need to consider the contribution or burden of 
each pool participant.

C.2.2. Accurate delineation of cash pooling transactions

10.115.  The accurate delineation of the cash pooling transactions will depend 
on the particular facts and circumstances of each case.