ess.  In  doing 
so, they require capability to determine the objectives of the gathering and 
analysis of the information, to hire the party gathering the information and 
making the analyses, to assess whether the right information is gathered and 
the analyses are adequately made, and, where necessary, to decide to adapt 
or terminate the contract with that provider, together with the performance 
of such assessment and decision-making. Neither a mere formalising of the 
outcome of decision-making in the form of, for example, meetings organised 
for formal approval of decisions that were made in other locations, minutes of 
a board meeting and signing of the documents relating to the decision, nor the 
setting of the policy environment relevant for the risk (see paragraph 1.76), 
qualifies  as  the  exercise  of  a  decision-making  function  sufficient  to 
demonstrate control over a risk.

1.67.  References to control over risk should not necessarily be taken to mean 
that the risk itself can be influenced or that the uncertainty can be nullified. 
Some risks cannot be influenced, and are a general condition of commercial 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

52 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

activity affecting all businesses undertaking that activity. For example, risks 
associated  with  general  economic  conditions  or  commodity  price  cycles  are 
typically beyond the scope of an MNE group to influence. Instead control over 
risk should be understood as the capability and authority to decide to take on 
the risk, and to decide whether and how to respond to the risk, for example 
through the timing of investments, the nature of development programmes, the 
design of marketing strategies, or the setting of production levels.

1.68.  Risk mitigation refers to measures taken that are expected to affect risk 
outcomes. Such measures may include measures that reduce the uncertainty or 
measures that reduce the consequences in the event that the downside impact 
of risk occurs. Control should not be interpreted as requiring risk mitigation 
measures  to  be  adopted,  since  in  assessing  risks  businesses  may  decide 
that the uncertainty associated with some risks, including risks that may be 
fundamental to their core business operations, after being evaluated, should be 
taken on and faced in order to create and maximise opportunities.

1.69.  The  concept  of  control  may  be  illustrated  by  the  following 
examples.  Company  A  appoints  a  specialist  manufacturer,  Company  B  to 
manufacture products on its behalf. The contractual arrangements indicate 
that Company B undertakes to perform manufacturing services, but that the 
product  specifications  and  designs  are  provided  by  Company  A,  and  that 
Company  A  determines  production  scheduling,  including  the  volumes  and 
timing of product delivery. The contractual relations imply that Company A 
bears  the  inventory  risk  and  the  product  recall  risk.  Company  A  hires 
Company  C  to  perform  regular  quality  controls  of  the  production  process. 
Company  A  specifies  the  objectives  of  the  quality  control  audits  and  the 
information that Company C should gather on its behalf. Company C reports 
directly to Company A. Analysis of the economically relevant characteristics 
shows  that  Company  A  controls  its  product  recall  and  inventory  risks 
by  exercising  its  capability  and  authority  to  make  a  number  of  relevant 
decisions  about  whether  and  how  to  take  on  risk  and  how  to  respond  to 
the  risks.  Besides  that  Company  A  has  the  capability  to  assess  and  take 
decisions  relating  to  the  risk  mitigation  functions  and  actually  performs 
these functions. These include determining the objectives of the outsourced 
activities,  the  decision  to  hire  the  particular  manufacturer  and  the  party 
performing the quality checks, the assessment of whether the objectives are 
adequately  met,  and,  where  necessary,  to  decide  to  adapt  or  terminate  the   
contracts.

1.70.  Assume  that  an  investor  hires  a  fund  manager  to  invest  funds  on 
its account. Depending on the agreement between the investor and the fund 
manager, the latter may be given the authority to make portfolio investments 
on behalf of the investor on a day-to-day basis in a way that reflects the risk 
preferences of the investor, although the risk of loss in value of the investment 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 53

would be borne by the investor. In such an example, the investor is controlling 
its risks through four relevant decisions: the decision about its risk preference 
and therefore about the required diversification of the risks attached to the 
different  investments  that  are  part  of  the  portfolio,  the  decision  to  hire  (or 
terminate the contract with) that particular fund manager, 