ntributed.  For  example,  marketing  expenses 
may  be  an  appropriate  factor  for  distributors-marketers  if  advertising 
generates  unique  and  valuable  marketing  intangibles,  e.g.  in  consumer 
goods  where  the  value  of  marketing  intangibles  is  affected  by  advertising. 
Research  and  development  expenses  may  be  suitable  for  manufacturers  if 
they  relate  to  the  development  of  unique  and  valuable  intangibles  such  as 
patents. However, if, for instance, each party contributes different valuable 
intangibles,  then  it  is  not  appropriate  to  use  a  costbased  factor  unless  cost 
is a reliable measure of the relative value of those intangibles or costs can 
be risk-weighted to achieve a reliable measure of relative value. Even where 
each party contributes the same kind of intangibles, risk-weighting will be 
an  appropriate  consideration.  For  example,  where  the  risk  of  failure  at  an 
early stage of development is several times higher than the risk of failure at a 
later stage or in the development of incremental improvements to an already 
proven concept, then the costs incurred in that early stage will have a higher 
risk  weighting  than  the  costs  incurred  at  a  later  stage  or  on  incremental 
improvements. Employee remuneration may be relevant in situations where 
functions relating to the skills and experience of staff are the primary factor 
in generating the relevant profits.

2.182.  In  identifying  and  applying  appropriate  cost-based  profit  splitting 
factors a number of issues may need to be considered. One is that there may 
be differences between the parties in the timing of expenditure. For example, 
research  and  development  costs  that  are  relevant  to  the  value  of  a  party’s 
contributions may have been incurred several years in the past, whereas the 
expenditure for another party may be current. As a result, it may be necessary 
to  bring  historic  costs  to  current  values  (as  discussed  further  below)  in 
addition to the risk weighting described in paragraph 2.181. The relevant costs 
may be part of a larger cost pool that needs to be analysed and allocated to 
the contributions made to the profit split transaction. For example, marketing 
costs  may  be  incurred  and  recorded  across  several  product  lines,  whereas 
only  one  product  line  is  the  subject  of  the  profit  split  transaction.  Where 
location savings retained by member(s) of the MNE group are a significant 
contributor to profits, and such costs are included in the profits to be split, 
then  the  manner  in  which  independent  parties  would  allocate  retained 
location  savings  would  need  to  be  reflected  in  the  profit  split,  taking  into 
account the guidance in Section D.6 of Chapter I. Cost-based profit splitting 
factors  can  be  very  sensitive  to  differences  and  changes  in  accounting 
classification of costs. It is therefore necessary to clearly identify in advance 
what  costs  will  be  taken  into  account  in  the  determination  of  the  profit 
splitting factor and to determine the factor consistently among the parties.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 147

2.183. 
In  some  cases,  a  significant  issue  for  the  reliability  of  cost-based 
splitting factors is the determination of the relevant period of time from which 
the elements of determination of the profit splitting factor(s) (e.g. assets, costs, 
or others) should be taken into account. A difficulty arises because there can be 
a lag between the time when expenses are incurred and the time when value is 
created, and it is sometimes difficult to decide which period’s expenses should 
be used. For example, in the case of a cost-based factor, using the expenditure 
on a single-year basis may be suitable for some cases, while in some other cases 
it may be more suitable to use accumulated expenditure (net of depreciation or 
amortisation, where appropriate in the circumstances) incurred in the previous 
as  well  as  the  current  years.  Depending  on  the  facts  and  circumstances  of 
the case, this determination may have a significant effect on the allocation of 
profits amongst the parties. As noted in Section C.5.1 above, the selection of 
the profit splitting factor should be appropriate to the particular circumstances 
of the case and provide a reliable approximation of the division of profits that 
would have been agreed between independent parties. The principles of this 
section are illustrated by Example 16 in Annex II to Chapter II of this guidance.

D. Conclusions on transactional profit methods

2.184.  Paragraphs  2.1-2.12  provide  guidance  on  the  selection  of  the  most 
appropriate transfer pricing method to the circumstances of the case.

2.185.  As discussed in these Guidelines, there are concerns regarding the use 
of the transactional net margin method, in partic