tion about developments that lead to ex post 
outcomes which may call into question those assumptions, even when those 
outcomes arise in years subsequent to those under audit, in order to be in a 
position to consider the appropriateness of the ex ante pricing.

13. 
Tax administrations should apply audit practices to ensure that HTVI 
transactions  are  identified  and  acted  upon  as  early  as  possible.  However, 
it  should  be  kept  in  mind  that  in  some  cases  it  may  be  difficult  for  tax 
administrations to perform a risk assessment at the time of the transaction, 
or  even  shortly  thereafter,  to  evaluate  the  reliability  of  the  information  on 
which pricing has been based, or to consider whether the transfer is priced at 
arm’s length. Such analysis may only be possible some years after the trans-
action. Under the HTVI approach, the tax administration may, in particular 
circumstances, use ex post outcomes to consider the reasonableness of the 
projections and probability weightings taken into account in the valuation at 
the time of the transaction.

This guidance for tax administrations on the application of the HTVI 
14. 
approach should not be used to delay or bypass normal audit procedures. In 
fact, it remains important to identify transfers of HTVI as early as possible and 
to act on presumptive evidence promptly as a matter of good administrative 
practice,  and  in  order  to  avoid  running  into  difficulties  with  administrative 
or statutory time limits for audits and reassessment. Nothing in this guidance 
changes those time limits, which are a matter of sovereignty of jurisdictions.

15. 
To enhance tax certainty for taxpayers and reduce the risk of double 
taxation, it is desirable that the HTVI approach be applied consistently. However, 
some jurisdictions may encounter difficulties in applying the HTVI approach 
due,  for  example,  to  short  audit  cycles  or  a  short  statute  of  limitations.  This 
guidance does not require jurisdictions to adopt legislation aimed at overcoming 
such difficulties, but it does not prevent jurisdictions from considering targeted 
changes to procedures or legislation (such as the introduction of a requirement to 
notify promptly the transfer or licence of an intangible falling within the HTVI 
definition, or amendment of the normal statute of limitations).

In  applying  the  HTVI  approach  contained  in  Section  D.4  of 
16. 
Chapter VI, tax administrations may make appropriate adjustments, including 
adjustments  that  reflect  an  alternative  pricing  structure  that  differs  from 
that adopted by the taxpayer but reflects one which would have been made 
by  independent  enterprises  in  comparable  circumstances  to  take  account 
of  the  valuation  uncertainty  in  the  pricing  of  the  transaction  (for  example, 
milestone  payments,  running  royalties  with  or  without  adjustable  elements, 
price  adjustment  clauses,  or  a  combination  of  these  characteristics).  See 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER VI: HARD-TO-VALUE INTANGIBLES – 637

paragraph 6.185 and 6.192. Since hard to value intangibles are intangibles for 
which no reliable comparables exist, tax administrations cannot be expected to 
substantiate adjustments to the pricing structure by referring to uncontrolled 
transactions involving comparable intangibles.

17. 
Some  of  the  practical  ways  in  which  the  approach  to  HTVI  can 
be  applied  are  illustrated  in  the  examples  in  the  following  section.  The 
application of the approach to HTVI should be underpinned by the following 
principles:

•  Where the HTVI approach applies, tax administrations can consider 
ex post outcomes as presumptive evidence about the reasonableness 
of the assumptions of the ex ante pricing arrangements.

•  The ex post outcomes inform the determination of the valuation that 
would  have  been  made  at  the  time  of  the  transaction;  however,  it 
would be incorrect to base the valuation on the actual income or cash 
flows without taking into account whether the associated enterprises 
could or should reasonably have known and considered, at the time 
of the transfer of the HTVI, the information related to the probability 
of achieving such income or cash flows.

•  Where a revised valuation shows that the intangible was transferred 
at  an  undervalue  or  overvalue  compared  to  the  arm’s  length  price, 
the  revised  price  of  the  transferred  intangible  may  be  assessed  to 
tax  taking  into  account  price  adjustment  clauses  and/or  contingent 
payments,  irrespective  of  the  payment  profiles  asserted  by  the 
taxpayer, consistently with paragraph 16.

•  Tax  administrations  should  apply  audit  practices  to  ensure  that 
presumptive  evidence  based  on  ex  post  outcomes  is  identified  and 
acted upon as early as possible.

2. Examples1

18. 
The  following  examples  are  aimed 