hey determine that another tax 
administration should be involved may refuse to enter into unilateral negotiations 
with the taxpayer, even though the taxpayer still insists on a unilateral approach.
15. 
The negotiation of a MAP APA requires the consent of the relevant 
competent authorities. In some cases, the taxpayer will take the initiative by 
making simultaneous requests to the affected competent authorities. In other 
cases the taxpayer may file a request with one jurisdiction under the relevant 
domestic procedure and ask it to contact the other affected jurisdiction(s) to 
see if a MAP APA is possible. Consequently, as soon as is administratively 
practicable,  the  competent  authority  in  that  jurisdiction  should  notify  the 
relevant tax treaty partner(s) to determine whether they want to participate. 
The other tax administration should respond to the invitation as quickly as 
practicable,  bearing  in  mind  the  need  to  have  sufficient  time  to  evaluate 
whether their participation is possible or feasible.
16. 
However,  Article  25  does  not  oblige  the  competent  authorities  to 
enter into MAP APAs at the request of the taxpayer. The willingness to enter 
into MAP APAs will depend on the particular policy of a jurisdiction and 
how it interprets the mutual agreement article of its bilateral treaties. Some 
competent  authorities  will  only  consider  such  an  agreement  for  cases  that 
require the resolution of “difficulties or doubts arising as to the interpretation 
or application of the Convention”. The desire of the taxpayer for certainty of 
treatment is therefore not, in isolation, sufficient to pass the above threshold. 
Other  competent  authorities  apply  a  less  restrictive  threshold  for  entering 
into  MAP  APAs,  based  on  their  view  that  the  MAP  APA  process  should 
be encouraged. Additionally, the taxpayer must qualify for the benefit of a 
particular treaty (e.g. by qualifying as a resident of one of the Contracting 
States) and must satisfy any other criteria contained in the mutual agreement 
article.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

520 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS

B.2. Other factors

The  fact  that  a  taxpayer  may  be  under  audit  or  examination 
17. 
should not prevent the taxpayer from requesting a MAP APA in respect of 
prospective transactions. The audit or examination and the mutual agreement 
procedure are separate processes and generally can be resolved separately. 
Audit or examination activities would not normally be suspended by a tax 
administration whilst the MAP APA is being considered, unless it is agreed 
by  all  parties  that  the  audit  or  examination  should  be  held  in  abeyance 
because  the  obtaining  of  the  MAP  APA  would  assist  with  the  completion 
of the audit or examination. Nevertheless, the treatment of the transactions 
being audited or examined may be informed by the methodology agreed to 
be applied prospectively under the MAP APA, provided that the facts and 
circumstances  surrounding  the  transaction  under  audit  or  examination  are 
comparable with those relating to the prospective transactions. This issue is 
discussed further in paragraph 69 below.

18. 
The ability to conclude a MAP APA is predicated on full co-operation 
by  the  taxpayer.  The  taxpayer  and  any  associated  enterprises  should: 
a)  provide  their  full  co-operation  in  assisting  the  tax  administrations  with 
the evaluation of their proposal; and b) provide, upon request, any additional 
information necessary for that evaluation, for example, details of their transfer 
pricing transactions, business arrangements, forecasts and business plans, and 
financial performance. It is desirable that this commitment from the taxpayer 
be sought before commencing the MAP APA process.

19. 
In  some  cases  the  freedom  of  one  or  both  competent  authorities 
to  agree  to  a  MAP  APA  may  be  limited,  for  example  by  a  legally  binding 
decision affecting issues subject to the APA proposals. In such circumstances, 
as  the  MAP  APA  process  is  by  definition  consensual,  it  is  within  the 
discretion of the affected competent authorities (subject to the domestic laws 
and policies of each jurisdiction) whether to engage in MAP APA discussions. 
For example, a competent authority may decline to enter into discussions if 
it  determines  that  such  a  limitation  on  the  position  of  the  other  competent 
authority unacceptably reduces the likelihood of mutual agreement. However, 
it  is  likely  that  in  many  cases  MAP  APA  discussions  would  be  viewed  as 
desirable even though the flexibility of one or both competent authorities is 
restricted. This is a matter for the competent authorities to determine on a case 
by case basis.

20.  When  deciding  whether  a  MAP  APA  is  appropriate,  a  key 
consideration is the extent of the advantage to be ga