ion 
of  the  other  associated  enterprise,  double  taxation  may  result  because 
corresponding adjustment relief may not be available if no primary adjustment 
is made. The mutual agreement procedure is available to resolve difficulties 
presented  by  compensating  adjustments,  and  competent  authorities  are 
encouraged to use their best efforts to resolve any double taxation which may 
arise from different jurisdictional approaches to such year-end adjustments.

C.3.  Concerns with the procedures

4.40.  While corresponding adjustment and mutual agreement procedures 
have  proved  to  be  able  to  resolve  most  transfer  pricing  conflicts,  serious 
concerns have been expressed by taxpayers. For example, because transfer 
pricing  issues  are  so  complex,  taxpayers  have  expressed  concerns  that 
there  may  not  be  sufficient  safeguards  in  the  procedures  against  double 
taxation.  These  concerns  are  mainly  addressed  with  the  introduction  in 
the 2008 update of the OECD Model Tax Convention of a new paragraph 5 
to  Article  25  which  introduces  a  mechanism  that  allows  taxpayers  to 
request  arbitration  of  unresolved  issues  that  have  prevented  competent 
authorities  from  reaching  a  mutual  agreement  within  two  years.  There  is 
also  in  the  Commentary  on  Article  25  a  favourable  discussion  of  the  use 
of supplementary dispute resolution mechanisms in addition to arbitration, 
including mediation and the referral of factual disputes to third party experts.

4.41.  Taxpayers have also expressed fears that their cases may be settled 
not on their individual merits but by reference to a balance of the results in 
other cases. An established good practice is that, in the resolution of mutual 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

186 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

agreement  cases,  a  competent  authority  should  engage  in  discussions  with 
other  competent  authorities  in  a  principled,  fair,  and  objective  manner, 
with each case being decided on its own merits and not by reference to any 
balance of results in other cases. To the extent applicable, these Guidelines 
and proposals detailed in the Report on BEPS Action 14 (bearing in mind 
the  difference  between  the  minimum  standard  and  best  practices)  are  an 
appropriate  basis  for  the  development  of  a  principled  approach.  Similarly, 
there may be a fear of retaliation or offsetting adjustments by the jurisdiction 
from  which  the  corresponding  adjustment  has  been  requested.  It  is  not 
the  intention  of  tax  administrations  to  take  retaliatory  action;  the  fears  of 
taxpayers  may  be  a  result  of  inadequate  communication  of  this  fact.  Tax 
administrations should take steps to assure taxpayers that they need not fear 
retaliatory action and that, consistent with the arm’s length principle, each 
case  is  resolved  on  its  own  merits.  Taxpayers  should  not  be  deterred  from 
initiating mutual agreement procedures where Article 25 is applicable.

4.42.  Concerns that have been expressed regarding the mutual agreement 
procedure,  as  it  affects  corresponding  adjustments,  include  the  following, 
which are discussed separately in the sections below:

1.  Taxpayers may be denied access to the mutual agreement procedure 

in transfer pricing cases;

2.  Time limits under domestic law for the amendments of tax assessments 
may make corresponding adjustments unavailable if the relevant tax 
treaty does not override those limits;

3.  Mutual agreement procedure cases may take a long time;

4.  Taxpayer participation may be limited;
5.  Published guidance may not be readily available to instruct taxpayers 

on how the mutual agreement procedure may be used; and

6.  There may be no procedures to suspend the collection of tax deficiencies 
or the accrual of interest pending resolution of the mutual agreement 
procedure case.

C.4.  Guidance, approaches and actions taken to address concerns 

with the mutual agreement procedure

C.4.1.  Denial of access to the mutual agreement procedure in transfer 

pricing cases

4.43.  A fundamental concern with respect to the mutual agreement procedure 
as it relates to corresponding adjustments is the failure to grant access to the 
mutual  agreement  procedure  for  transfer  pricing  cases.  The  undertaking  to 
resolve  by  mutual  agreement  cases  of  taxation  not  in  accordance  with  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 187

Convention is an integral part of the obligations assumed by a Contracting State 
in entering into a tax treaty and must be performed in good faith. The failure 
to grant mutual agreement procedure access with respect to a treaty partner’s 
transfer pricing adjustments, may frustrate a primary objective of tax treaties. 
The work on Action 14 of the BEPS Action Plan directly addressed concerns 
relate