vidual employees between associated enterprises will not give 
rise  to  a  need  for  compensation.  Where  employees  are  seconded  (i.e.  they 
remain on the transferor’s payroll but work for the transferee), in many cases 
the appropriate arm’s length compensation for the services of the seconded 
employees in question will be the only payment required.

It  should  be  noted,  however,  that  in  some  situations,  the  transfer 
1.175. 
or  secondment  of  one  or  more  employees  may,  depending  on  the  facts  and 
circumstances, result in the transfer of valuable know-how or other intangibles 
from  one  associated  enterprise  to  another.  For  example,  an  employee  of 
Company A seconded to Company B may have knowledge of a secret formula 
owned by Company A and may make that secret formula available to Company B 
for  use  in  its  commercial  operations.  Similarly,  employees  of  Company  A 
seconded to Company B to assist with a factory start-up may make Company A 
manufacturing  know-how  available  to  Company  B  for  use  in  its  commercial 
operations. Where such a provision of know-how or other intangibles results from 
the transfer or secondment of employees, it should be separately analysed under 
the provisions of Chapter VI and an appropriate price should be paid for the right 
to use the intangibles.

1.176.  Moreover,  it  should  also  be  noted  that  access  to  an  assembled 
workforce with particular skills and experience may, in some circumstances, 
enhance  the  value  of  transferred  intangibles  or  other  assets,  even  where 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

86 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

the  employees  making  up  the  workforce  are  not  transferred.  Example  23 
in Annex I to Chapter VI illustrates one fact pattern where the interaction 
between intangibles and access to an assembled workforce may be important 
in a transfer pricing analysis.

D.8.  MNE group synergies

1.177.  Comparability  issues,  and  the  need  for  comparability  adjustments, 
can  also  arise  because  of  the  existence  of  MNE  group  synergies.  In  some 
circumstances, MNE groups and the associated enterprises that comprise such 
groups may benefit from interactions or synergies amongst group members 
that  would  not  generally  be  available  to  similarly  situated  independent 
enterprises.  Such  group  synergies  can  arise,  for  example,  as  a  result  of 
combined purchasing power or economies of scale, combined and integrated 
computer and communication systems, integrated management, elimination of 
duplication, increased borrowing capacity, and numerous similar factors. Such 
group synergies are often favourable to the group as a whole and therefore 
may  heighten  the  aggregate  profits  earned  by  group  members,  depending 
on  whether  expected  cost  savings  are,  in  fact,  realised,  and  on  competitive 
conditions. In other circumstances such synergies may be negative, as when 
the  size  and  scope  of  corporate  operations  create  bureaucratic  barriers  not 
faced  by  smaller  and  more  nimble  enterprises,  or  when  one  portion  of  the 
business  is  forced  to  work  with  computer  or  communication  systems  that 
are  not  the  most  efficient  for  its  business  because  of  group  wide  standards 
established by the MNE group.

1.178.  Paragraph  7.13  of  these  Guidelines  suggests  that  an  associated 
enterprise  should  not  be  considered  to  receive  an  intra-group  service  or  be 
required to make any payment when it obtains incidental benefits attributable 
solely  to  its  being  part  of  a  larger  MNE  group.  In  this  context,  the  term 
incidental refers to benefits arising solely by virtue of group affiliation and in the 
absence of deliberate concerted actions or transactions leading to that benefit. 
The term incidental does not refer to the quantum of such benefits or suggest 
that such benefits must be small or relatively insignificant. Consistent with this 
general  view  of  benefits  incidental  to  group  membership,  when  synergistic 
benefits or burdens of group membership arise purely as a result of membership 
in an MNE group and without the deliberate concerted action of group members 
or the performance of any service or other function by group members, such 
synergistic benefits of group membership need not be separately compensated 
or specifically allocated among members of the MNE group.

1.179. 
In some circumstances, however, synergistic benefits and burdens of 
group membership may arise because of deliberate concerted group actions and 
may give an MNE group a material, clearly identifiable structural advantage 
or disadvantage in the marketplace over market participants that are not part 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 87

of an MNE group and that are involved in comparable transactions. Whether 
such a s