l law supports rights to indemnification for 
the restructured entity under the facts of the case as accurately 
delineated

9.80. 
In  the  assessment  of  whether  the  conditions  of  the  termination 
or  non-renewal  of  an  existing  arrangement  are  arm’s  length,  the  possible 
recourse that may be offered by the applicable commercial law might provide 
some  helpful  insights.  The  applicable  commercial  legislation  or  case  law 
may  provide  useful  information  on  indemnification  rights  and  terms  and 
conditions  that  could  be  expected  in  case  of  termination  of  specific  types 
of  agreements,  e.g.  of  a  distributorship  agreement.  Under  such  rules,  it 
may  be  that  the  terminated  party  has  the  right  to  claim  before  the  courts 
an  indemnification  irrespective  of  whether  or  not  it  was  provided  for  in 
the  contract.  Where  the  parties  belong  to  the  same  MNE  group,  however, 
the terminated party is unlikely in practice to litigate against its associated 
enterprise  in  order  to  seek  such  an  indemnification,  and  the  conditions  of 
the termination may therefore differ from the conditions that would be made 
between independent enterprises in similar circumstances.

F.2.  Whether the existence or absence of an indemnification 

clause or similar provisions (as well as the terms of such a 
clause where it exists) under the terms of the arrangement, as 
accurately delineated, is arm’s length.

9.81.  The accurate delineation of the transaction will identify whether an 
indemnification  clause  or  arrangement  is  in  place  upon  termination,  non-
renewal or re-negotiation of the arrangements. In order to do so, the starting 
point  should  be  a  review  of  whether  an  indemnification  clause  or  similar 
provision for termination, non-renewal or renegotiation is provided for, and 
of  whether  the  conditions  for  termination,  non-renewal  or  renegotiation  of 
the contract were respected (e.g. with regard to any required notice period). 
However, the examination of the terms of the contract between the associated 
enterprises may not suffice from a transfer pricing perspective as the mere 
fact  that  a  given  terminated,  non-renewed  or  renegotiated  contract  did  not 
provide an indemnification or similar provision does not necessarily mean 
that this is arm’s length, as discussed below.

9.82.  As  noted  in  paragraph  1.46,  in  transactions  between  independent 
enterprises,  the  divergence  of  interests  between  the  parties  ensures  that: 
(i) contractual terms are concluded that reflect the interest of both parties, 
(ii)  the  parties  will  ordinarily  seek  to  hold  each  other  to  the  terms  of  the 
contract,  and  (iii)  that  contractual  terms  will  be  ignored  or  modified  after 
the  fact  generally  only  if  it  is  in  the  interests  of  both  parties.  However, 
this  same  divergence  of  interest  may  not  exist  in  the  case  of  associated 
enterprises or any such divergences may be managed in ways facilitated by 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

386 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

the relationship between the associated enterprises and not solely or mainly 
through  contractual  agreements.  For  this  reason,  when  the  facts  of  the 
case differ from the written terms of the agreement between the parties or 
when no written terms exist, the absence or existence (and its terms) of an 
indemnification clause should be deduced from the conduct of the parties. For 
instance, it may be that, on the basis of the facts of the case and of the actual 
conduct  of  the associated enterprises, it  is determined  that the term of the 
contract is longer than established in the written contract, which would entitle 
the terminated party to some indemnification in case of early termination.

9.83.  Once the existence or absence of an indemnification clause in favour 
of  the  restructured  entity  upon  termination,  non-renewal  or  substantial 
renegotiation  of  the  agreements  has  been  determined,  the  analysis  should 
then focus on assessing whether such indemnification clause and its terms (or 
absence thereof) are arm’s length. Where comparables data evidence a similar 
indemnification clause (or absence thereof) in comparable circumstances, the 
indemnification clause (or absence thereof) in a controlled transaction will be 
regarded as arm’s length.

9.84.  However, in those cases where such comparables data are not found, 
the determination of whether the indemnification clause (or absence thereof) 
is  arm’s  length  should  take  into  account  the  rights  and  other  assets  of  the 
parties  at  the  time  of  entering  into  the  arrangement  and  of  its  termination 
or renegotiation. This analysis might also be assisted by an examination of 
the options realistically available to the parties, as in some situations, it may 
be the case that, in