actions satisfy the arm’s length principle and hence in resolving transfer pricing 
issues and facilitating tax examinations.

2.  when  Chapter  v  of  these  Guidelines  was  adopted  in  1995,  tax  administrations 
and taxpayers had less experience in creating and using transfer pricing documentation. 
The previous language in Chapter v of the Guidelines put an emphasis on the need for 
reasonableness in the documentation process from the perspective of both taxpayers and 
tax  administrations,  as  well  as  on  the  desire  for  a  greater  level  of  cooperation  between 
tax administrations and taxpayers in addressing documentation issues in order to avoid 
excessive  documentation  compliance  burdens  while  at  the  same  time  providing  for 
adequate information to apply the arm’s length principle reliably. The previous language 
of Chapter v did not provide for a list of documents to be included in a transfer pricing 
documentation package nor did it provide clear guidance with respect to the link between 
the process for documenting transfer pricing, the administration of penalties and the burden 
of proof.

3. 
Since  then,  many  countries  have  adopted  transfer  pricing  documentation  rules 
and  the  proliferation  of  these  requirements,  combined  with  a  dramatic  increase  in  the 
volume  and  complexity  of  international  intra-group  trade  and  the  heightened  scrutiny 
of transfer pricing issues by tax administrations, has resulted in a significant increase in 
compliance costs for taxpayers. Nevertheless tax administrations often find transfer pricing 
documentation to be less than fully informative and not adequate for their tax enforcement 
and risk assessment needs.

4. 
The following discussion identifies three objectives of transfer pricing documentation 
rules.  The  discussion  also  provides  guidance  for  the  development  of  such  rules  so  that 
transfer pricing compliance is more straightforward and more consistent among countries, 
while  at  the  same  time  providing  tax  administrations  with  more  focused  and  useful 
information  for  transfer  pricing  risk  assessments  and  audits.  An  important  overarching 
consideration  in  developing  such  rules  is  to  balance  the  usefulness  of  the  data  to  tax 
administrations for transfer pricing risk assessment and other purposes with any increased 
compliance burdens placed on taxpayers. In this respect it is noted that clear and widely 

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

12 –  ChAPTER v OF ThE TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES ON DOCUMENTATION

adopted documentation rules can reduce compliance costs which could otherwise arise in 
a transfer pricing dispute.

B. Objectives of transfer pricing documentation requirements

5. 

Three objectives of transfer pricing documentation are:

1. 

to  ensure  that  taxpayers  give  appropriate  consideration  to  transfer  pricing 
requirements in establishing prices and other conditions for transactions between 
associated enterprises and in reporting the income derived from such transactions 
in their tax returns;

2.  to  provide  tax  administrations  with  the  information  necessary  to  conduct  an 

informed transfer pricing risk assessment; and

3. 

to  provide  tax  administrations  with  useful  information  to  employ  in  conducting 
an appropriately thorough audit of the transfer pricing practices of entities subject 
to  tax  in  their  jurisdiction,  although  it  may  be  necessary  to  supplement  the 
documentation with additional information as the audit progresses.

6. 
Each  of  these  objectives  should  be  considered  in  designing  appropriate  domestic 
transfer pricing documentation requirements. It is important that taxpayers be required to 
carefully evaluate, at or before the time of filing a tax return, their own compliance with 
the applicable transfer pricing rules. It is also important that tax administrations be able to 
access the information they need to conduct a transfer pricing risk assessment to make an 
informed decision about whether to perform an audit. In addition, it is important that tax 
administrations be able to access or demand, on a timely basis, all additional information 
necessary to conduct a comprehensive audit once the decision to conduct such an audit is 
made.

B.1. Taxpayer’s assessment of its compliance with the arm’s length principle

7. 
By  requiring  taxpayers  to  articulate  convincing,  consistent  and  cogent  transfer 
pricing  positions,  transfer  pricing  documentation  can  help  to  ensure  that  a  culture  of 
compliance is created. well-prepared documentation will give tax administrations some 
assurance  that  the  taxpayer  has  analysed  the  positions  it  reports  on  tax  returns,  has 
considered  the  available  comparable  data,  and  has  reached  consistent  transfer  pricing 
positions. Moreover, contemporaneous documentation