onstructive equity contributions, or constructive loans.

Shareholder activity

An activity which is performed by a member of an MNE group (usually 
the  parent  company  or  a  regional  holding  company)  solely  because  of  its 
ownership interest in one or more other group members, i.e. in its capacity 
as shareholder.

Simultaneous tax examinations

A simultaneous tax examination, as defined in Part A of the OECD Model 
Agreement  for  the  Undertaking  of  Simultaneous  Tax  Examinations,  means 
an “arrangement between two or more parties to examine simultaneously and 
independently, each on its own territory, the tax affairs of (a) taxpayer(s) in 
which they have a common or related interest with a view to exchanging any 
relevant information which they so obtain”.

Trade intangible

An intangible other than a marketing intangible.

Traditional transaction methods

The comparable uncontrolled price method, the resale price method, and 

the cost plus method.

Transactional net margin method

A transactional profit method that examines the net profit margin relative 
to an appropriate base (e.g. costs, sales, assets) that a taxpayer realises from a 
controlled transaction (or transactions that it is appropriate to aggregate under 
the principles of Chapter III).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

GLOSSARy – 27

Transactional profit method

A  transfer  pricing  method  that  examines  the  profits  that  arise  from 
particular controlled transactions of one or more of the associated enterprises 
participating in those transactions.

Uncontrolled transactions

Transactions between enterprises that are independent enterprises with 

respect to each other.

Unique and valuable contributions

Contributions  (for  instance  functions  performed,  or  assets  used  or 
contributed)  will  be  “unique  and  valuable”  in  cases  where  (i)  they  are  not 
comparable  to  contributions  made  by  uncontrolled  parties  in  comparable 
circumstances,  and  (ii)  they  represent  a  key  source  of  actual  or  potential 
economic benefits in the business operations.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 29

Chapter I 

The arm’s length principle

A. Introduction

1.1. 
This Chapter provides a background discussion of the arm’s length 
principle,  which  is  the  international  transfer  pricing  standard  that  OECD 
member  countries  have  agreed  should  be  used  for  tax  purposes  by  MNE 
groups  and  tax  administrations.  The  Chapter  discusses  the  arm’s  length 
principle,  reaffirms  its  status  as  the  international  standard,  and  sets  forth 
guidelines for its application.

1.2.  When  independent  enterprises  transact  with  each  other,  the 
conditions  of  their  commercial  and  financial  relations  (e.g.  the  price  of 
goods  transferred  or  services  provided  and  the  conditions  of  the  transfer 
or provision) ordinarily are determined by market forces. When associated 
enterprises transact with each other, their commercial and financial relations 
may  not  be  directly  affected  by  external  market  forces  in  the  same  way, 
although associated enterprises often seek to replicate the dynamics of market 
forces  in  their  transactions  with  each  other,  as  discussed  in  paragraph  1.5 
below. Tax administrations should not automatically assume that associated 
enterprises have sought to manipulate their profits. There may be a genuine 
difficulty in accurately determining a market price in the absence of market 
forces or when adopting a particular commercial strategy. It is important to 
bear in mind that the need to make adjustments to approximate arm’s length 
conditions arises irrespective of any contractual obligation undertaken by the 
parties to pay a particular price or of any intention of the parties to minimise 
tax. Thus, a tax adjustment under the arm’s length principle would not affect 
the  underlying  contractual  obligations  for  non-tax  purposes  between  the 
associated enterprises, and may be appropriate even where there is no intent 
to minimise or avoid tax. The consideration of transfer pricing should not be 
confused with the consideration of problems of tax fraud or tax avoidance, 
even though transfer pricing policies may be used for such purposes.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
30 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

1.3.  When transfer pricing does not reflect market forces and the arm’s 
length principle, the tax liabilities of the associated enterprises and the tax 
revenues  of  the  host  jurisdictions  could  be  distorted.  Therefore,  OECD 
member countries have agreed that for tax purposes the profits of associated 
enterprises may be adjusted as necessary to correct any such distortions and 
thereby  ensure  that  the  arm’s  length  principle  is  satisfied.  OECD  member 
countries consider that an appropriate adjustment is achieved b