ctional 
alysis

ndustry
In
nalysis
An

I
nter-
company
c
ransaction
t

Company/
Group
Analysis

Executive
Summary

1.4.1  Executive  Summary

1.4.1.1  The objective of transfer pricing analysis is to support the arm’s 
length  nature  of  international  transactions  and  specified  domestic 
transactions entered into by the taxpayer. Therefore, the essence of 
the transfer pricing documentation and all major observations and 
findings  has  to  be  summarily  discussed  at  the  start  of  the  report.

1.4.1.2  The executive summary should clearly enumerate the gist of 
the  detailed  analysis  and  information  captured  in  transfer  pricing 
Documentation  Report,  such  as:

l  The  business  overview  of  the  group  and  the  taxpayer;

l  Relationship  between  the  taxpayer  and  its  associated 

enterprise;

l  Characterization  of  the  entities  based  on  functional  and 

risk  analysis;

l  List  of  international  transactions  or  specified  domestic 
transactions along with the value of the transactions and 
methodology  used  to  benchmark  the  transactions;  and

l  Summary  of  economic  analysis  undertaken.

I-106

Transfer Pricing – A Compendium 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer Pricing Documentation and its Critical Importance in Practice

1.4.1.3  Also,  it  is  important  to  mention  the  fact  that  the  results 
obtained  in  the  transfer  pricing  Documentation,  are  pertinent  to 
that  financial  year  and  the  results  may  need  to  be  updated  based 
on  latest  financials  result,  change  in  functional  and  risk  profile  or 
the level of tangible/intangible asset owned (i.e. the need to review 
and update the transfer pricing policy/arrangement to reflect change 
in  market  conditions).

1.4.2  Company/Group  Overview

1.4.2.1  GROUP  STRUCTURE AND  OWNERSHIP  LINKAGES:  The  taxpayer 
should  appropriately  document  its  shareholding  structure  as  well 
as  the  overall  group  structure,  to  the  extent  relevant  to  the  Indian 
taxpayer and its international transactions. The ownership linkages 
among  the  group  entities  should  also  be  mentioned,  as  the  same 
would  enable  one  to  easily  identify  the  entities  within  the  group 
which would qualify as “associated enterprise” (“AEs”) as specified 
in section 92A(2), under which the two become associated enterprises. 
Further, in view of specific requirements of Rule 10D of the Rules, 
it  is  imperative  to  mention  the  name,  address,  legal  status,  and 
country  of  tax  residence  country  of  tax  residence  of  each  of  the 
AEs.

1.4.2.2  DIAGRAMMATIC REPRESENTATION: The aforesaid information, 
if  presented  in  the  form  of  a  chart  or  a  table  would  provide  a 
better  optical  view  of  the  group  structure  and  would  be  easy  to 
comprehend. An illustrative presentation of the group structure of 
an  MNC  group  is  presented  below:

ABC  Inc, 
USA

ABC  Pte, 
Singapore

ABC  India

ABC 
Malaysia

ABC  UK

ABC 
Germany

1.4.2.3  BUSINESS OVERVIEW OF THE GROUP: The Documentation should 
contain  an  overview  of  the  business  of  the  MNE  group  of  which 
the  taxpayer  is  a  member.  This  section  should  also  include  the 

I-107

overview  of  the    business    operations    of  the  taxpayer,  especially, 
its activities in relation to which international transactions have been 
entered into with its AEs, a brief background (date of incorporation, 
employee base, global presence etc.), short description of the business 
segments, financial performance of the entity, activities performed/
services  offered  under  each  segment  and  the  product  profile.  The 
information  in  this  regard  could  be  obtained  from  and  linked  to 
the  information  contained  in  the  Director’s  Report,  company’s/
group  website  and  other  publicly  available  authentic  data.  This 
information  would  give  an  overall  understanding  of  the  business 
operations  of  the  Indian  entity  within  the  overall  group  structure. 
This  would  also  form  a  base  for  carrying  out  an  analysis  of  the 
functions  performed,  assets  employed,  and  risks  assumed  (“FAR 
analysis”)  and  also  the  economic  analysis.

1.4.2.4  BUSINESS OVERVIEW OF THE TRANSACTING AES: Lastly, a brief 
business description of each of the AEs with whom the taxpayer has 
international transactions including section reference as per which 
it  becomes  an  AE,  should  also  be  included  in  the  Documentation. 
This enables an easy understanding of the business activities of the 
AEs and gives an overview of the relevance of the activity of each 
of  the  entities  within  the  group.

1.4.2.5  SUMMARY:  In  summary,  the  group  overview  section  could 
contain  information  such  as:

l  the lines of business in which the MNE group is engaged;

l  key  products  dealt-in  by  the  group  and  its  market 

leadership;

l  global positioning in terms of presence in various countr