ies, 
Company A in Country A and Company B, in Country B.
27. 
FUND Co is an independent asset management company that offers 
collective investment vehicles to retail investors in Country A and Country B. 
The investment vehicles commercialised by FUND Co are mirror funds that 
contain equity holdings from both Country A and Country B.
28. 
FUND Co hires ASSET Co to provide portfolio management services 
for the funds. FUND Co pays ASSET Co a fee based on the combined assets 
under  management  of  the  funds  sold  to  retail  investors  in  Country  A  and 
Country B.
29. 
ASSET Co enters into a contract with Company A and Company B 
such  that  both  companies  will  provide  the  portfolio  management  services. 
Company A employs portfolio managers who specialise in Country A equity 
and  Company  B  employs  portfolio  managers  who  specialise  in  Country  B 
equity.  ASSET  Co  acts  as  a  nominee  for  Companies  A  and  B.  It  does  not 
perform  any  functions  in  relation  to  the  FUND  Co  contract,  nor  has  it 
contributed any assets or assumed any risks.
30. 
An investment management committee composed of equal numbers 
of portfolio managers from Company A and Company B decides on the funds’ 
investment management. This committee meets regularly and determines the 
composition of the funds. The composition of the funds between equities of 
Countries A and B will vary according to the decisions of the committee.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

472 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD

31. 
The functional analysis concludes that the economically significant 
risk in relation to the transaction relates to retail investors withdrawing their 
deposits from the FUND Co mirror funds, in particular as a result of poor 
performance.  In  accordance  with  the  risk  analysis  framework  described 
in  Section  D.1.2.1  of  Chapter  I  of  these  Guidelines,  it  is  determined  that 
Company  A  and  Company  B  share  the  assumption  of  risks  related  to  the 
performance of the funds and perform the portfolio management services in 
a highly integrated fashion.

32.  While  Company  A  and  Company  B  provide  valuable  services,  an 
active arm’s length market for portfolio management services indicates that 
these services are not unique. Comparables for such portfolio management 
services (i.e. the services performed by Company A and B together) may be 
available, but would provide no information on how to split the arm’s length 
fee between Company A and Company B.

Under  these  circumstances,  the  transactional  profit  split  method  is 
33. 
found to be the most appropriate method for determining the compensation 
for  Company  A  and  Company  B  as  their  operations  are  highly  integrated 
and interdependent such that it is not possible to use a one-sided method to 
determine an arm’s length outcome for either of their respective contributions. 
The arm’s length fee received by ASSET Co from FUND Co will form the 
revenue  portion of the relevant profits to  be split between  Company A and 
Company B. The arm’s length compensation to ASSET Co will be zero.

Example 7

34. 
Company  L,  a  resident  of  Country  L,  and  Company  M,  a  resident 
of Country M, are part of an MNE group, LM Corporation. Companies L 
and M offer international trade facilitation, freight forwarding and customs 
broking  services  to  unrelated  customers.  Together,  Companies  L  and  M, 
provide customers with services including receipt of goods in the exporting 
country,  customs  clearance  in  the  exporting  country,  containerisation, 
organising shipment of the container, delivery of containers to and from the 
ship,  de-containerisation,  customs  clearance  in  the  importing  country,  and 
delivering  the  goods  to  their  destination.  Customers  may  be  importers  or 
exporters and Companies L and M facilitate imports and exports from both 
countries. Customers typically pay for these services based on a combination 
of the volume and weight of the goods.

35. 
The  accurate  delineation  of  the  transaction  determines  that 
Companies L and M perform the same trade facilitation, freight forwarding 
and  customs  broking  services  jointly  in  a  highly  integrated  manner. 
Companies L and M are highly dependent on each other for the successful 
completion  of  each  transaction  with  a  customer.  Companies  L  and  M  also 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD – 473

perform similar marketing and customer relationship functions, depending 
on the location of the customer. Companies L and M jointly use an integrated 
goods-tracking  IT  system.  The  system  was  initially  purchased  jointly 
by  Companies  L  and  M  from  an  unrelated  supplier.  Companies  L  and  M 
each  make  incremental  improvements  to  the  system  where  possible.  LM 
Corporation’s  