ource: OECD 

Where a Reporting MNE chooses to include information for the fiscal year of Constituent Entities ending 
on the same date as the fiscal year of the Reporting MNE, or ending within the fiscal year of the Reporting 
MNE, it should include in Table 3 the following explanations, if applicable. 

• 

• 

Information  may  be  included  in  Table  1  for  more  than  one  12  month  fiscal  year  of  a  particular 
Constituent Entity ending in the fiscal year of the Reporting MNE (e.g. in cases where the fiscal 
year of the Reporting MNE is for a period in excess of 12 months). 

If Table 1 includes information that relates to the fiscal year(s) of one or more Constituent Entities 
that cover a period that  is  longer or shorter than the  fiscal year of the Reporting MNE, Table 3 
should include one or more statements that “Table 1 includes information on [name of Constituent 
Entity/Entities and residence jurisdictions] for the fiscal year [start date to end date of relevant fiscal 
year]”.  

If Table 1 does not include information on one or more Constituent Entities that do not have a fiscal year 
ending in the fiscal year of the Reporting MNE, Table 3 should include a statement that “Table 1 does not 
contain information on the following Constituent [Entity/Entities], which do not have a fiscal year ending in 
the reporting fiscal year: [list of names of Constituent Entities and residence jurisdictions]”. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
32 |   

Information with respect to the sources of data in Table 3 (November 2019) 

4.1 What information should an MNE Group include in Table 3 with respect to the 
sources of data used in preparing its CbC Report?  

The general instructions for completion of the CbC report template provide, at page 32 of the BEPS Action 
13 report, that a reporting  MNE should consistently use the same sources of data from year to year in 
completing the CbC report template. The reporting MNE may choose to use data from its consolidation 
reporting packages, from separate entity financial statements, regulatory financial statements, or internal 
management accounts. The reporting MNE should also provide a brief description of the sources of data 
used in preparing the template in Table 3. If a change is made to the source of data used from year to 
year, the reporting MNE should explain the reasons for the change and its consequences. However, from 
CbC reports filed to date, it appears that not all MNEs are providing this information, or the information 
being  provided  is  insufficient  for  a  tax  administration  to  understand  the  different  data  sources  used  in 
completing the CbC report.  

This guidance clarifies that MNEs are required to provide a description of the sources of data used and, 
while this may be brief, it should be sufficient to enable an understanding of the source of each item of 
information in the CbC report. Where a general principle applies, this should be described together with 
any  exceptions  that  exist.  Where  information  relevant  to  a  particular  jurisdiction  is  taken  from  different 
sources of data, or where the sources of data used change over time, this must be explained.  

As an illustrative example, Table 3 could include a statement that information has been obtained from the 
MNE Group’s consolidation package with the exception of the following.  

• 

• 

[Specified  items  for  jurisdictions  A,  B  and  C]  were  obtained  from  entity  financial  statements 
prepared in accordance with local GAAP. 

[Specified items for jurisdictions D, E and F] were obtained from regulatory financial statements 
prepared in accordance with local law. 

• 
[Specified items for jurisdictions B, D and F] were obtained from internal management accounts. 
•  Since the CbC report for [previous reporting fiscal year], the source of data used for [specified items 
for  jurisdiction  D]  has  changed  from  [previous  source]  to  [current  source].  [Description  of  the 
reasons and consequences of this change]. 

Inclusive  Framework  members  should  implement  this  guidance  as  soon  as  possible,  taking  into  their 
specific  domestic  circumstances,  but  it  is  recognised  that  time  may  be  needed  to  make  any  required 
changes to domestic law or administrative guidance. During this short transitional period, taxpayers are 
encouraged  to  include  voluntarily  in  Table  3  the  information  on  sources  of  data  used  set  out  in  this 
guidance. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
  | 33 

Common errors made by MNE groups in preparing CbC reports (November 2019)  

5.1 What common errors have been made by MNE groups in preparing CbC reports?  

CbC reports contain valuable information on the global allocation of the income, taxes paid and the location 
of economic activity among tax