arent company of an MNE group in the pharmaceutical 
1. 
sector.  Company  A  owns  a  patent  for  a  new  pharmaceutical  formulation. 
Company  A  designed  the  clinical  trials  and  performed  the  research  and 
development  functions  during  the  early  stages  of  the  development  of  the 
product, leading to the granting of the patent.

2. 
Company  A  enters  into  a  contract  with  Company  S,  a  subsidiary 
of  Company  A,  according  to  which  Company  A  licenses  the  patent  rights 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
468 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD

relating to the potential pharmaceutical product to Company S. In accordance 
with the contract, Company S conducts the subsequent development of the 
product and performs important enhancement functions. Company S obtains 
the authorisation from the relevant regulatory body. The development of the 
product is successful and it is sold in various markets around the world.

The  accurate  delineation  of  the  transaction  indicates  that  the 
3. 
contributions made by both Company A and Company S are unique and valuable 
to the development of the pharmaceutical product.

4. 
Under  these  circumstances,  the  transactional  profit  split  method  is 
likely to be the most appropriate method for determining the compensation 
for the patent rights licensed by Company A to Company S.

Example 2

5. 
A Co, a member of T Group, is a company incorporated in Country A 
whose principal activity is the growing and processing of tea. A Co identifies, 
acquires  and  cultivates  land  with  extremely  good  soil  for  growing  tea.  A 
Co has developed extensive knowhow in respect of tea-growing, including 
maximising the desirable qualities of the tea it grows through its cultivation 
methods. The properties of the soil together with the cultivation methods give 
A Co’s tea a highly sought after flavour.

A Co processes tea by undertaking the following activities: sorting 
6. 
leaf,  grading,  full  or  partial  fermenting,  and  blending  and  packaging  for 
export as per customer order specifications. Blending entails using extensive 
proprietary know-how to mix the various teas in order to get blends with the 
unique tastes appreciated by customers of T Group. Tea produced by A Co 
has won international acclaim for its unique taste and aroma.

A Co sells its tea to B Co, its parent company located in Country B. 

7. 
B Co then repackages and brands the teas for sale in the target markets.

B  Co  owns  and  has,  by  its  own  efforts,  developed  the  tradename 
8. 
and trademark which are both unique and valuable. However, the branding 
features the origin of the tea and the unique blend developed by A Co. B Co 
has  carried  out  extensive  advertising  campaigns  through  electronic  media, 
internet, trade fairs and publications in industry magazines resulting in the 
product range becoming market leader in a number of geographic markets. 
Tea sold by T Group commands a premium price.

9. 
The  accurate  delineation  of  the  transaction  in  this  particular  case 
determines  that  both  A  Co  and  B  Co  are  making  a  unique  and  valuable 
contribution and the most appropriate transfer pricing method is likely to be 
the transactional profit split method.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD – 469

Example 3

Company A and Company B are members of an MNE group that sells 
10. 
electronic appliances. For the launch of a new line of products, Company A 
will be responsible for its design, development and manufacturing  whereas 
Company B will undertake the marketing functions and the global distribution 
of the goods.

11. 
In  particular,  Company  A  performs  the  research  and  development 
functions  and  decides  on  the  lines  of  research  and  the  timelines.  For  the 
manufacturing of the new line of products, Company A decides on the levels 
of  production  and  performs  the  quality  controls.  In  doing  so,  Company  A 
uses  its  valuable  know-how  and  expertise  regarding  the  manufacturing  of 
electronic appliances.

12. 
Once  the  products  are  manufactured,  they  are  sold  to  Company  B, 
which develops and executes cutting-edge global marketing activities relating to 
the new line of products. In particular, Company B is responsible for designing 
the marketing strategy, deciding on the level of marketing expenditure in each 
jurisdiction where the products will be released, and validating the impact of the 
marketing campaigns on a monthly basis. The marketing activities performed by 
Company B result in a valuable trademark and associated goodwill by which the 
new line of products is favourably differentiated from competitors’ alternatives 
in the market.

Company  B  is  also  responsible  for  the  global  distribution  of  the 
13. 
products.  The  distribution  activities  perfor