he royalty.

•  Company S’s sales of R brand watches in years 4 and 5 are consistent 
with earlier budget forecasts. However, the introduction of the royalty 
from the beginning of year 4 results in Company S’s profit margins 
declining substantially.

40. 
Assume  that  there  is  no  evidence  that  independent  marketers/
distributors of similar branded products have agreed to pay royalties under 
similar  arrangements.  Company  S’s  level  of  marketing  expenditure  and 
activity, from year 4 on, is consistent with that of independent enterprises.

41. 
For  transfer  pricing  purposes,  it  would  not  generally  be  expected 
that a royalty would be paid in arm’s length transactions where a marketing 
and  distribution  entity  obtains  no  rights  for  transfer  pricing  purposes  in 
trademarks and similar intangibles other than the right to use such intangibles 
in  distributing  a  branded  product  supplied  by  the  entity  entitled  to  the 
income  derived  from  exploiting  such  intangibles.  Furthermore,  the  royalty 
causes  Company  S’s  profit  margins  to  be  consistently  lower  than  those  of 
independent enterprises with comparable functions performed, assets used 
and  risks  assumed  during  the  corresponding  years  of  similar  long-term 
marketing  and  distribution  arrangements.  Accordingly,  a  transfer  pricing 
adjustment disallowing the royalties paid would be appropriate based on the 
facts of this example.

Example 13

The facts in this example are the same as those set out in Example 10 

42. 
with the following additions:

•  At  the  end  of  year  3,  Primair  stops  manufacturing  watches  and 
contracts with a third party to manufacture them on its behalf. As 
a  result,  Company  S  will  import  unbranded  watches  directly  from 
the manufacturer and undertake secondary processing to apply the 
R  name  and  logo  and  package  the  watches  before  sale  to  the  final 
customer. It will then sell and distribute the watches in the manner 
described in Example 10.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

614 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES

•  As  a  consequence,  at  the  beginning  of  year  4,  Primair  and 
Company S renegotiate their earlier agreement and enter into a new 
long  term  licensing  agreement.  The  new  agreement,  to  start  at  the 
beginning  of  year  4,  is  for  five  years,  with  Company  S  having  an 
option for a further five years.

•  Under  the  new  agreement,  Company  S  is  granted  the  exclusive 
right  within  Country  y  to  process,  market  and  distribute  watches 
bearing  the  R  trademark  in  consideration  for  its  agreement  to  pay 
a  royalty  to  Primair  based  on  the  gross  sales  of  all  such  watches. 
Company S receives no compensation from Primair in respect of the 
renegotiation of the original marketing and distribution agreement. 
It  is  assumed  for  purposes  of  this  example  that  the  purchase  price 
Company  S  pays  for  the  watches  from  the  beginning  of  year  4  is 
arm’s length and that no consideration with respect to the R name is 
embedded in that price.

43. 
In connection with a tax audit conducted by Country y tax administrations 
in  year  6,  it  is  determined,  based  on  a  proper  functional  analysis,  that  the 
level  of  marketing  expenses  Company  S  incurred  during  years  1  through  3 
far  exceeded  those  incurred  by  independent  marketers  and  distributors  with 
similar long term marketing and distribution agreements. It is also determined 
that the level and intensity of marketing activity undertaken by Company S 
exceeded that of independent marketers and distributors, and that the relatively 
greater activity has been successful in expanding volumes and/or increasing 
the Primair group’s overall margins from sales in Country y. Given the extent 
of the market development activities undertaken by Company S, including its 
strategic control over such activities, it is evident from the comparability and 
functional  analysis  that  Company  S  has  assumed  significantly  greater  costs 
and assumed greater risks than comparable independent enterprises. There is 
also evidence that the individual entity profit margins realised by Company S 
are  significantly  lower  than  the  profit  margins  of  comparable  independent 
marketers and distributors during the corresponding years of similar long-term 
marketing and distribution arrangements.

44. 
The Country y audit also identifies that in years 4 and 5, Company S 
bears the costs and associated risks of its marketing activities under the new 
long-term licensing arrangement with Primair, and because of the long-term 
nature of the agreement, Company S may have an opportunity to benefit (or 
suffer a loss) from its activities. However, Company S has undertaken market 
development  activities  and  incurred  marketing  expenditure  far  beyond  what 
comparable independ