sales volume.

d)  Assumptions about the nature of the functions and risks of the 

enterprises involved in the transactions.

e)  Assumptions  about  exchange  rates,  interest  rates,  credit  rating 

and capital structure.

f)  Assumptions  about  management  or  financial  accounting  and 

classification of income and expenses; and

g)  Assumptions  about  the  enterprises  that  will  operate  in  each 

jurisdiction and the form in which they will do so.

It  may  also  be  helpful  to  set  parameters  for  an  acceptable  level 
45. 
of  divergence  for  some  assumptions  in  advance,  in  order  to  provide  the 
necessary  flexibility.  These  parameters  would  need  to  be  set  individually 
for  each  particular  MAP  APA  and  would  form  part  of  the  negotiations 
between the competent authorities. Only if the divergence from the prediction 
exceeded the parameter would the assumption become “critical” and action 
considered. Any action to be taken might also depend on the nature of the 
assumption and the level of divergence.

46. 
If the reliability of the proposed transfer pricing methodology is known 
to be sensitive to exchange rate fluctuations, it would seem sensible to design a 
methodology that was capable of accommodating a certain degree of expected 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

530 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS

fluctuation, perhaps by providing for prices to be adjusted to take into account 
exchange rate movements. Also it could be agreed in advance that movements 
in  either  direction  of  up  to  X%  would  require  no  action,  that  movements 
greater than X% but less than y% would trigger a prospective review of the 
methodology to make sure it remained appropriate, whilst a movement of more 
than y% would mean that a critical assumption had been breached and it would 
be necessary to prospectively re-negotiate the MAP APA. These parameters 
would  need  to  be  set  individually  for  each  particular  MAP  APA  and  would 
form part of the negotiation between the competent authorities.

C.3.7. Unexpected results
47. 
A problem may arise when the results of applying the transfer pricing 
methodology agreed in the MAP APA do not fulfil the expectations of one 
of the parties, as that party may question whether the critical assumptions, 
and  the  methodology  which  they  support,  are  still  valid.  The  resolution  of 
such questions may take a considerable amount of time and effort, thereby 
negating  one  of  the  objectives  of  the  whole  process.  One  possible  solution 
to this problem is to include enough flexibility in the proposal to cope with 
likely changes in the facts and circumstances so that unexpected results are 
less likely to occur so that there is less risk that the MAP APA agreement 
based upon the proposal will need to be renegotiated. The proposal must still, 
of course, conform to the arm’s length principle.

One way of achieving the above objective is to design a methodology 
48. 
that appropriately takes into account likely changes in facts and circumstances; 
for example, some variation between projected and actual sales volume can be 
built in to the pricing methodology at the outset by including prospective price 
adjustment clauses or allowing pricing to vary with volume. The allowable level 
of deviation should be set by reference to what would have been accepted by 
independent parties.

49. 
Another  possible  way  of  achieving  the  objective  of  increasing 
certainty, is to agree an acceptable range of results from applying the method 
of  the  MAP  APA.  In  order  to  conform  with  the  arm’s  length  principle,  the 
range should be agreed by all affected parties in advance, thereby avoiding the 
use of hindsight, and based on what independent parties would have agreed 
to  in  comparable  circumstances  (see  paragraphs  3.55-3.66  for  discussion  of 
the range concept). For example, the quantum of an item, such as a royalty, 
would be accepted so long as it remained within a certain range expressed as 
a proportion of the profits.

50. 
If  the  results  fall  outside  the  agreed  range,  the  action  to  be  taken 
would depend on what had been negotiated in the proposal in accordance with 
the wishes of the parties. Some parties may not wish to take the risk that the 
results will be significantly different from what they expected. Accordingly, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS – 531

they would use the range concept simply as a means of determining whether 
a critical assumption had been breached as described in paragraph 46. Other 
parties may place more emphasis on certainty of treatment than on avoiding 
unexpected  results  and  so  may  agree  that  the  MAP  APA  should  contain  a 
mechanism for adjusting the results so that they fall within the range agreed 
in advance.

C.3.8. Duration of the MA