mation  by  means  of  a 
Multilateral  Competent  Authority  Agreement  in  the  context  of  the  Common  Reporting 
Standard has proven both time- and resource-efficient, the same approach could be used 
for the purpose of putting the automatic exchange of information in relation to Country-
by-Country Reports in place. Therefore, the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement 

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

 
38 – ANNEx Iv TO ChAPTER v. COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

on the Exchange of Country-by-Country Reports (the “CbC MCAA”) has been developed, 
based on the Convention and inspired by the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement 
concluded  in  the  context  of  the  implementation  of  the  Common  Reporting  Standard. 
In  addition,  two  further  model  competent  authority  agreements  have  been  developed 
for  exchanges  of  Country-by-Country  Reports,  one  for  exchanges  under  Double  Tax 
Conventions and one for exchanges under Tax Information Exchange Agreements.

In line with paragraph 5 of Chapter v of these Guidelines, one of the three objectives 
of transfer pricing documentation is to provide tax administrations with the information 
necessary  to  conduct  an  informed  transfer  pricing  risk  assessment,  while  paragraph  10 
of Chapter v of these Guidelines states that effective risk identification and assessment 
constitute  an  essential  early  stage  in  the  process  of  selecting  appropriate  cases  for 
transfer  pricing  audit.  The  Country-by-Country  Reports  exchanged  on  the  basis  of  the 
model  competent  authority  agreements  contained  in  the  present  Country-by-Country 
Reporting Implementation Package, represent one of the three tiers of the transfer pricing 
documentation  and  will,  in  accordance  with  paragraphs  16,  17  and  25  of  Chapter  v  of 
these  Guidelines,  provide  tax  administrations  with  relevant  and  reliable  information  to 
perform  an  efficient  and  robust  transfer  pricing  risk  assessment  analysis.  Against  that 
background, the model competent authority agreements aim to provide the framework to 
make the information contained in the Country-by-Country Report available to concerned 
tax  authorities,  such  information  being  foreseeably  relevant  for  the  administration  and 
enforcement of their tax laws through the automatic exchange of information.

The  purpose  of  the  CbC  MCAA  is  to  set  forth  rules  and  procedures  as  may  be 
necessary  for  Competent  Authorities  of  jurisdictions  implementing  BEPS  Action  13  to 
automatically exchange Country-by-Country Reports prepared by the Reporting Entity of 
an MNE Group and filed on an annual basis with the tax authorities of the jurisdiction of 
tax residence of that entity with the tax authorities of all jurisdictions in which the MNE 
Group operates.

For most provisions, the wording is substantially the same as the text of the Multilateral 
Competent  Authority  Agreement  for  the  purpose  of  exchanges  under  the  Common 
Reporting Standard. where appropriate, the wording has been complemented or amended 
to reflect the Guidance on Country-by-Country Reporting set out in Chapter v of these 
Guidelines.

As a next step, it is intended that an xML Schema and a related User Guide will be 
developed with a view to accommodating the electronic exchange of Country-by-Country 
Reports.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

ANNEx Iv TO ChAPTER v. COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 39

Model legislation related to Country-by-Country Reporting

Article 1
Definitions

For purposes of this [title of the law] the following terms have the following meanings:

1. 
The  term  “Group”  means  a  collection  of  enterprises  related  through  ownership 
or  control  such  that  it  is  either  required  to  prepare  Consolidated  Financial  Statements 
for  financial  reporting  purposes  under  applicable  accounting  principles  or  would  be  so 
required  if  equity  interests  in  any  of  the  enterprises  were  traded  on  a  public  securities 
exchange.

2. 
The term “MNE Group” means any Group that (i) includes two or more enterprises 
the  tax  residence  for  which  is  in  different  jurisdictions,  or  includes  an  enterprise  that 
is  resident  for  tax  purposes  in  one  jurisdiction  and  is  subject  to  tax  with  respect  to  the 
business carried out through a permanent establishment in another jurisdiction, and (ii) is 
not an Excluded MNE Group.

The  term  “Excluded  MNE  Group”  means,  with  respect  to  any  Fiscal  Year  of  the 
3. 
Group, a Group having total consolidated group revenue of less than [750 million Euro]/
[insert an amount in local currency approximately equivalent to 750 million Euro as of 
January 2015] during the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the Reporting Fiscal Year as 
