 account  in  determining  the  arm’s  length 
price paid by Company T for Company S intangibles related to Company T’s 
geographic market. The value attributed to intangibles in the purchase price 
allocation performed for accounting purposes is not determinative for transfer 
pricing purposes.

Example 27

97. 
Company  A  is  the  Parent  of  an  MNE  group  with  operations  in 
Country X. Company A owns patents, trademarks and know-how with regard 
to several products produced and sold by the MNE group. Company B is a 
wholly  owned  subsidiary  of  Company  A.  All  of  Company  B’s  operations 
are conducted in Country y. Company B also owns patents, trademarks and 
know-how related to Product M.

For sound business reasons related to the co-ordination of the group’s 
98. 
patent protection and anti-counterfeiting activities, the MNE group decides to 
centralise ownership of its patents in Company A. Accordingly, Company B 
sells the Product M patents to Company A for a lump-sum price. Company A 
assumes responsibility to perform all ongoing functions and it assumes all 
risks related to the Product M patents following the sale. Based on a detailed 
comparability and functional analysis, the MNE group concludes that it is not 
able to identify any comparable uncontrolled transactions that can be used to 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 629

determine the arm’s length price. Company A and Company B reasonably 
conclude  that  the  application  of  valuation  techniques  represents  the  most 
appropriate transfer pricing method to use in determining whether the agreed 
price is consistent with arm’s length dealings.

99. 
Valuation  personnel  apply  a  valuation  method  that  directly  values 
property  and  patents  to  arrive  at  an  after-tax  net  present  value  for  the 
Product  M  patent  of  80.  The  analysis  is  based  on  royalty  rates,  discount 
rates and useful lives typical in the industry in which Product M competes. 
However, there are material differences between Product M and the relevant 
patent  rights  related  to  Product  M,  and  those  typical  in  the  industry.  The 
royalty  arrangements  used  in  the  analysis  would  therefore  not  satisfy  the 
comparability standards required for a CUP method analysis. The valuation 
seeks to make adjustments for these differences.

100. 
In conducting its analysis, Company A also conducts a discounted 
cash  flow  based  analysis  of  the  Product  M  business  in  its  entirety.  That 
analysis,  based  on  valuation  parameters  typically  used  by  Company  A  in 
evaluating potential acquisitions, suggests that the entire Product M business 
has a net present value of 100. The 20 difference between the 100 valuation 
of the entire Product M business and the 80 valuation of the patent on its own 
appears to be inadequate to reflect the net present value of routine functional 
returns for functions performed by Company B and to recognise any value 
for  the  trademarks  and  know-how  retained  by  Company  B.  Under  these 
circumstances further review of the reliability of the 80 value ascribed to the 
patent would be called for.

Example 28

101. 
Company A is the Parent company of an MNE group with operations 
in Country S. Company B is a member of the MNE group with operations 
in  Country  T,  and  Company  C  is  also  a  member  of  the  MNE  group  with 
operations  in  Country  U.  For  valid  business  reasons  the  MNE  group 
decides  to  centralise  all  of  its  intangibles  related  to  business  conducted 
outside  of  Country  S  in  a  single  location.  Accordingly,  intangibles  owned 
by Company B are sold to Company C for a lump sum, including patents, 
trademarks,  know-how,  and  customer  relationships.  At  the  same  time, 
Company C retains Company B to act as a contract manufacturer of products 
previously produced and sold by Company B on a full-risk basis. Company C 
has  the  personnel  and  resources  required  to  manage  the  acquired  lines  of 
business, including the further development of intangibles necessary to the 
Company B business.

102. 
The  MNE  group  is  unable  to  identify  comparable  uncontrolled 
transactions  that  can  be  used  in  a  transfer  pricing  analysis  of  the  arm’s 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

630 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES

length price to be paid by Company C to Company B. Based on a detailed 
comparability  and  functional  analysis,  the  MNE  group  concludes  that 
the  most  appropriate  transfer  pricing  method  involves  the  application  of 
valuation  techniques  to  determine  the  value  of  the  transferred  intangibles. 
In conducting its valua tion, the MNE group is unable to reliably segregate 
particular cash flows associated with all of the specific intangibles.

103. 
Under these circumstances, in determining the arm’s length co