 passage of time.

1.13.  Both  tax  administrations  and  taxpayers  often  have  difficulty  in 
obtaining adequate information to apply the arm’s length principle. Because 
the arm’s length principle usually requires taxpayers and tax administrations 
to evaluate uncontrolled transactions and the business activities of independent 
enterprises,  and  to  compare  these  with  the  transactions  and  activities  of 
associated  enterprises,  it  can  demand  a  substantial  amount  of  data.  The 
information  that  is  accessible  may  be  incomplete  and  difficult  to  interpret; 
other  information,  if  it  exists,  may  be  difficult  to  obtain  for  reasons  of  its 
geographical  location  or  that  of  the  parties  from  whom  it  may  have  to  be 
acquired.  In  addition,  it  may  not  be  possible  to  obtain  information  from 
independent  enterprises  because  of  confidentiality  concerns.  In  other  cases 
information  about  an  independent  enterprise  which  could  be  relevant  may 
simply not exist, or there may be no comparable independent enterprises, e.g. if 
that industry has reached a high level of vertical integration. It is important not 
to lose sight of the objective to find a reasonable estimate of an arm’s length 
outcome based on reliable information. It should also be recalled at this point 
that  transfer  pricing  is  not  an  exact  science  but  does  require  the  exercise  of 
judgment on the part of both the tax administration and taxpayer.

B.2.  Maintaining the arm’s length principle as the international 

consensus

1.14.  While recognising the foregoing considerations, the view of OECD 
member  countries  continues  to  be  that  the  arm’s  length  principle  should 
govern  the  evaluation  of  transfer  prices  among  associated  enterprises. 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

34 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

The  arm’s  length  principle  is  sound  in  theory  since  it  provides  the  closest 
approximation of the workings of the open market in cases where property 
(such  as  goods,  other  types  of  tangible  assets,  or  intangible  assets)  is 
transferred or services are rendered between associated enterprises. While 
it may not always be straightforward to apply in practice, it does generally 
produce  appropriate  levels  of  income  between  members  of  MNE  groups, 
acceptable  to  tax  administrations.  This  reflects  the  economic  realities  of 
the controlled taxpayer’s particular facts and circumstances and adopts as a 
benchmark the normal operation of the market.

1.15.  A  move  away  from  the  arm’s  length  principle  would  abandon  the 
sound  theoretical  basis  described  above  and  threaten  the  international 
consensus,  thereby  substantially  increasing  the  risk  of  double  taxation. 
Experience under the arm’s length principle has become sufficiently broad and 
sophisticated to establish a substantial body of common understanding among 
the business community and tax administrations. This shared understanding is 
of great practical value in achieving the objectives of securing the appropriate 
tax base in each jurisdiction and avoiding double taxation. This experience 
should be drawn on to elaborate the arm’s length principle further, to refine 
its operation, and to improve its administration by providing clearer guidance 
to taxpayers and more timely examinations. In sum, OECD member countries 
continue to support strongly the arm’s length principle. In fact, no legitimate 
or  realistic  alternative  to  the  arm’s  length  principle  has  emerged.  Global 
formulary  apportionment,  sometimes  mentioned  as  a  possible  alternative, 
would not be acceptable in theory, implementation, or practice. (See Section C, 
immediately below, for a discussion of global formulary apportionment.)

C. A non-arm’s-length approach: global formulary apportionment

C.1.  Background and description of approach

1.16.  Global formulary apportionment has sometimes been suggested as 
an  alternative  to  the  arm’s  length  principle  as  a  means  of  determining  the 
proper level of profits across national taxing jurisdictions. The approach has 
not been applied as between jurisdictions although it has been attempted by 
some local taxing jurisdictions.

1.17.  Global  formulary  apportionment  would  allocate  the  global  profits 
of an MNE group on a consolidated basis among the associated enterprises 
in  different  jurisdictions  on  the  basis  of  a  predetermined  and  mechanistic 
formula.  There  would  be  three  essential  components  to  applying  global 
formulary  apportionment:  determining  the  unit  to  be  taxed,  i.e.  which  of 
the subsidiaries and branches of an MNE group should comprise the global 
taxable  entity;  accurately  determining  the  global  profits;  and  establishing 
the formula to be used to allocate the global profits of the unit. The formula 

OECD TRANSFER PR