ransactions 
take  place.  The  term  APA  refers  to  a  procedural  arrangement  between  a 
taxpayer or taxpayers and a tax administration intended to resolve potential 
transfer pricing disputes in advance. The APA differs from the classic ruling 
procedure, in that it requires the detailed review and to the extent appropriate, 
verification  of  the  factual  assumptions  on  which  the  determination  of 
legal  consequences  is  based,  before  any  such  determination  can  be  made. 
Further, the APA provides for a continual monitoring of whether the factual 
assumptions remain valid throughout the course of the APA period.

An  APA  is  defined  in  the  first  sentence  of  paragraph  4.134  of  the 
4. 
Guidelines  as  “an  arrangement  that  determines,  in  advance  of  controlled 
transactions,  an  appropriate  set  of  criteria  (e.g.  method,  comparables  and 
appropriate  adjustments  thereto,  critical  assumptions  as  to  future  events) 
for  the  determination  of  the  transfer  pricing  for  those  transactions  over  a 
fixed period of time.” It is also stated in paragraph 4.142 that “The concept 
of APAs also may be useful in resolving issues raised under Article 7 of the 
OECD  Model  Tax  Convention  relating  to  allocation  problems,  permanent 
establishments, and branch operations.”

5. 
In  the  Guidelines  (see  paragraph  4.140)  the  arrangements  solely 
between a taxpayer or taxpayers and a tax administration are referred to as 
“unilateral APAs”. The Guidelines encourage bilateral APAs and recommend 
in  paragraph  4.173  that  “Wherever  possible,  an  APA  should  be  concluded 
on  a  bilateral  or  multilateral  basis  between  competent  authorities  through 
the mutual agreement procedure of the relevant treaty.” A bilateral APA is 
based on a single mutual agreement between the competent authorities of two 
tax administrations under the relevant treaty. A multilateral APA is a term 
used  to  describe  a  situation  where  there  is  more  than  one  bilateral  mutual 
agreement.

6. 
Although,  commonly  an  APA  will  cover  cross-border  transactions 
involving more than one taxpayer and legal enterprise, i.e. between members 
of a MNE group, it is also possible for an APA to apply to only one taxpayer 
and legal enterprise. For example, consider an enterprise in Country A that 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS – 517

trades through branches in Countries B, C and D. In order to have certainty 
that  double  taxation  will  not  occur,  Countries  A,  B,  C  and  D  will  need  to 
share  a  common  understanding  of  the  measure  of  profits  to  be  attributed 
to  each  jurisdiction  in  respect  of  that  trading  activity  under  Article  7  of 
the OECD Model Tax Convention. This certainty could be achieved by the 
negotiation of a series of separate, but mutually consistent, bilateral mutual 
agreements, i.e. between A and B, A and C and A and D. The existence of 
multiple bilateral mutual agreements raises a number of special issues and 
these are discussed further in Section B, paragraphs 21-27 of this annex.

7. 
It is important to distinguish the different types of APAs and so the 
bilateral or multilateral APAs, which are the main subject of this annex, are 
hereafter referred to as “MAP APAs”. The APAs that do not involve a mutual 
agreement negotiation are referred to as “unilateral APAs”. The generic term 
“APA” is used where the feature to be discussed applies to both types of APA. 
It should be noted that, in the vast majority of cases a bilateral APA will be 
concluded under the mutual agreement procedure of a double tax convention. 
However,  in  some  cases  where  a  bilateral  APA  has  been  sought  and  the 
treaty is not appropriate, or where a treaty is not applicable, the competent 
authorities of some jurisdictions may nevertheless conclude an arrangement 
using  the  executive  power  conferred  on  the  heads  of  tax  authorities.  The 
term  MAP  APA  should  be  interpreted,  with  the  necessary  adaptations,  as 
including such exceptional agreements.

The  focus  of  this  annex  is  on  providing  guidance  to  enable  tax 
8. 
authorities  to  resolve  disputes  through  the  mutual  agreement  procedure, 
thereby  helping  to  eliminate  the  risk  of  potential  double  taxation  and 
providing the taxpayer with reasonable certainty of tax treatment. However, it 
should be noted that there are other mechanisms for achieving the same goals 
which are not discussed in this annex.

A.3. Objectives of the APA process

It  has  been  the  experience  of  a  number  of  jurisdictions  that  the 
9. 
resolution  of  transfer  pricing  disputes  by  traditional  audit  or  examination 
techniques has often proved very difficult and also costly for taxpayers and 
tax authorities both in terms of time and resources. Such techniques inevitably 
examine  transfe