 whether  functional  and  economic  analyses 
are  still  accurate  and  relevant  and  to  confirm  the  validity  of  the  applied 
transfer pricing methodology. In general, the master file, the local file and the 
Country-by-Country Report should be reviewed and updated annually. It is 
recognised, however, that in many situations business descriptions, functional 
analyses, and descriptions of comparables may not change significantly from 
year to year.

5.38. 
In order to simplify compliance burdens on taxpayers, tax administrations 
may determine, as long as the operating conditions remain unchanged, that 
the  searches  in  databases  for  comparables  supporting  part  of  the  local  file 
be  updated  every  three  years  rather  than  annually.  Financial  data  for  the 
comparables should nonetheless be updated every year in order to apply the 
arm’s length principle reliably.

D.6. Language

5.39.  The  necessity  of  providing  documentation  in  local  language  may 
constitute a complicating factor with respect to transfer pricing compliance 
to  the  extent  that  substantial  time  and  cost  may  be  involved  in  translating 
documents.  The  language  in  which  transfer  pricing  documentation  should 
be  submitted  should  be  established  under  local  laws.  Jurisdictions  are 
encouraged to permit filing of transfer pricing documentation in commonly 
used  languages  where  it  will  not  compromise  the  usefulness  of  the 
documents. Where tax administrations believe that translation of documents 
is necessary, they should make specific requests for translation and provide 
sufficient time to make such translation as comfortable a burden as possible.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION – 237

D.7. Penalties

5.40.  Many jurisdictions have adopted documentation-related penalties to 
ensure  efficient  operation  of  transfer  pricing  documentation  requirements. 
They  are  designed  to  make  non-compliance  more  costly  than  compliance. 
Penalty  regimes  are  governed  by  the  laws  of  each  individual  jurisdiction. 
Practices among jurisdictions with regard to transfer pricing documentation-
related penalties vary widely. The existence of different local penalty regimes 
in different jurisdictions may influence the quality of taxpayers’ compliance 
so that taxpayers could be driven to favour one jurisdiction over another in 
their compliance practices.

5.41.  Documentation-related penalties imposed for failure to comply with 
transfer  pricing  documentation  requirements  or  failure  to  timely  submit 
required information are usually civil (or administrative) monetary penalties. 
These documentation-related penalties are based on a fixed amount that may 
be assessed for each document missing or for each fiscal year under review, 
or  calculated  as  a  percentage  of  the  related  tax  understatement  ultimately 
determined,  a  percentage  of  the  related  adjustment  to  the  income,  or  as  a 
percentage of the amount of the cross-border transactions not documented.

5.42.  Care should be taken not to impose a documentation-related penalty on a 
taxpayer for failing to submit data to which the MNE group did not have access. 
However,  a  decision  not  to  impose  documentation-related  penalties  does  not 
mean that adjustments cannot be made to income where prices are not consistent 
with  the  arm’s  length  principle.  The  fact  that  positions  are  fully  documented 
does not necessarily mean that the taxpayer’s positions are correct. Moreover, an 
assertion by a local entity that other group members are responsible for transfer 
pricing  compliance  is  not  a  sufficient  reason  for  that  entity  to  fail  to  provide 
required documentation, nor should such an assertion prevent the imposition of 
documentation-related penalties for failure to comply with documentation rules 
where the necessary information is not forthcoming.

5.43.  Another way for jurisdictions to encourage taxpayers to fulfil transfer 
pricing documentation requirements is by designing compliance incentives 
such  as  penalty  protection  or  a  shift  in  the  burden  of  proof.  Where  the 
documentation meets the requirements and is timely submitted, the taxpayer 
could  be  exempted  from  tax  penalties  or  subject  to  a  lower  penalty  rate  if 
a  transfer  pricing  adjustment  is  made  and  sustained,  notwithstanding  the 
provision of documentation. In some jurisdictions where the taxpayer bears 
the burden of proof regarding transfer pricing matters, a shift of the burden 
of  proof  to  the  tax  administration’s  side  where  adequate  documentation  is 
provided on a timely basis offers another measure that could be used to create 
an incentive for transfer pricing documentation compliance.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

238 – CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION

D.8. Confidentiality

5.44.  Tax  administrations  