stributor

The example below is for illustration only. It is not intended to provide any 
guidance on the selection of the transfer pricing method or of comparables, 
on the efficiency of distributors or on arm’s length rates of return, but only to 
illustrate the effects of differences between the extent and complexity of the 
marketing function of a distributor and of comparables.

Sales of product
(For illustration purposes, assume both 
sell the same volume of the same product 
on the same market at the same price)

Purchase price from manufacturer 
taking account of the significance of the 
marketing function in accordance to the 
functional analysis

Gross margin

Marketing expenses

Other expenses (overheads)

Net profit margin

Case 1
The distributor performs 
a limited marketing 
function

Case 2
The distributor performs 
a more significant 
marketing function

1 000

1 000

600

480 *

400 (40%)

50

300

50 (5%)

520 (52%)

150

300

70 (7%)

* Assume that in this case the difference of 120 in transaction price corresponds to the 
difference  in  the  extent  and  complexity  of  the  marketing  function  performed  by  the 
distributor (additional expense of 100 plus remuneration of the function of the distributor)

2. 
In  Illustration  1,  if  a  taxpayer  is  operating  with  an  associated 
manufacturer as in case 2 while the third party “comparables” are operating 
as in case 1, and assuming that the difference in the extent and complexity of 
the marketing function is not identified because of for instance insufficiently 
detailed information on the third party “comparables”, then the risk of error 
when applying a gross margin method could amount to 120 (12% × 1 000), 
while it would amount to 20 (2% × 1 000) if a net margin method was applied. 
This illustrates the fact that, depending on the circumstances of the case and in 
particular of the effect of the functional differences on the cost structure and 
on the revenue of the “comparables”, net profit margins can be less sensitive 
than gross margins to differences in the extent and complexity of functions.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER II: SENSITIVITy OF GROSS AND NET PROFIT INDICATORS – 463

Illustration 2: Effect of a difference in the level of risk assumed by a 
distributor

The example below is for illustration only. It is not intended to provide any 
guidance on the selection of the transfer pricing method or of comparables, 
on the efficiency of distributors or on arm’s length rates of return, but only 
to illustrate the effects of differences between the level of risk assumed by a 
distributor and by comparables.

Case 1
The distributor does 
not assume the risk of 
obsolescence of products 
because it benefits from a 
“buy-back” clause whereby all 
unsold inventory is purchased 
back by the manufacturer.

Case 2
The distributor assumes 
the risk of obsolescence 
of products. It does not 
benefit from a “buy-
back” clause in its 
contractual relationship 
with the manufacturer.

Sales of product
(For illustration purposes, assume both 
sell the same volume of the same product 
on the same market at the same price)

Purchase price from manufacturer taking 
account of the obsolescence risk in 
accordance with the functional analysis

Gross margin

Loss on obsolete inventory

Other expenses (overheads)

Net profit margin

1 000

700

300 (30%)

0

250

50 (5%)

1 000

640 *

360 (36%)

50

250

60 (6%)

* Assume that in this case the difference of 60 in transaction price corresponds to the 
difference in the allocation of the obsolescence risk between the manufacturer and the 
distributor (additional loss estimated 50 plus remuneration of the risk of the distributor), 
i.e. it is the price for the contractual “buy-back” clause.

3. 
In  Illustration  2,  if  a  controlled  transaction  is  performed  as  in  case  1 
while the third party “comparables” are operating as in case 2, and assuming 
that  the  difference  in  the  level  of  risks  is  not  identified  due  to  insufficiently 
detailed  information  on  the  third  party  “comparables”,  then  the  risk  of  error 
when applying a gross margin method could amount to 60 (6% × 1 000) instead 
of 10 (1% × 1 000) if a net margin method is applied. This illustrates the fact that, 
depending on the circumstances of the case and in particular of the effect of the 
differences in the level of risks on the cost structure and on the revenue of the 
“comparables”,  net  profit  margins  can  be  less  sensitive  than  gross  margins  to 
differences in the level of risks (assuming the contractual allocation of risks is 
arm’s length).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

464 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER II: SENSITIVITy OF GROSS AND NET PROFIT INDICATORS

4. 
Consequently, enterprises performing different functions may have a 
wide range of gross profit margins while still earning broadly similar levels 
of net profits. For instance, business