 in  Sections  D.3  and 
D.4  of  Chapter  VI  on  hard-to-value  intangibles  is  applicable  to  value  the 
contributions of each of the participants to the CCA.

8.21. 
If an arrangement covers multiple activities, it will be important to 
take  this  into  account  in  choosing  an  allocation  method,  so  that  the  value 
of contributions made by each participant is properly related to the relative 
benefits  expected  by  the  participants.  One  approach  (though  not  the  only 
one)  is  to  use  more  than  one  allocation  key.  For  example,  if  there  are  five 
participants  in  a  CCA,  one  of  which  cannot  benefit  from  certain  services 
activities undertaken within the CCA, then in the absence of some form of 
set-off or reduction in contribution, the contributions associated with those 
activities might be allocated only to the other four participants. In this case, 
two allocation keys might be used to allocate the contributions. Whether any 
particular allocation key or keys are appropriate depends on the exact nature 
of the CCA activity and the relationship between the allocation key(s) and 
the  expected  benefits.  The  guidance  in  Chapter  VII  on  the  use  of  indirect 
methods of determining an arm’s length charge for services (paragraphs 7.23-
7.26)  may  be  helpful  in  this  regard.  In  contrast,  the  three  enterprises 
operating production sites in the illustration of a CCA in paragraph 8.8 are 
all  anticipated  to  benefit  from  the  multiple  projects  to  improve  production 
processes, and may adopt an allocation key based on, for example, relative 
size of production capacity. If one of the enterprises chooses not to implement 
the outcome of a particular project, this should not affect the relative share 
of  benefits  or  the  allocation  key  used.  However,  in  such  circumstances 
careful consideration should be given to the reason the enterprise chose not 
to implement the outcome, whether it ever had any reasonable intention of so 
doing, whether the expected benefits should have been adapted as the CCA 
arrangement developed and when its intention changed.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

346 – CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS

8.22.  Whatever  the  method  used  to  evaluate  participants’  relative  shares 
of expected benefits, adjustments to the measure used may be necessary to 
account for differences between the respective shares of expected and actual 
benefits  received  by  the  participants.  The  CCA  should  require  periodic 
reassess ment  of  contributions  vis-à-vis  the  revised  share  of  benefits  to 
determine whether the future contributions of participants should be adjusted 
accordingly. Thus, the allocation key(s) most relevant to any particular CCA 
may change over time leading to prospective adjustments. Such adjustments 
may reflect either the fact that the parties will have more reliable information 
about foreseeable (but uncertain) events as time passes, or the occurrence of 
unforeseeable events.

C.4. The value of each participant’s contribution

8.23.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  a  CCA  satisfies  the  arm’s 
length  principle  –  i.e.  whether  each  participant’s  proportionate  share  of 
the  overall  contributions  to  the  CCA  is  consistent  with  the  participant’s 
proportionate  share  of  the  overall  expected  benefits  –  it  is  necessary  to 
measure the value of each participant’s contributions to the arrangement.

8.24.  Contributions  to  a  CCA  may  take  many  forms.  For  services  CCAs, 
contributions  primarily  consist  of  the  performance  of  the  services.  For 
development  CCAs,  contributions  typically  include  the  performance  of 
development  activities  (e.g.  R&D,  marketing),  and  often  include  additional 
contributions  relevant  to  the  development  CCA  such  as  pre-existing  tangible 
assets or intangibles. Irrespective of the type of CCA, all contributions of current 
or  pre-existing  value  must  be  identified  and  accounted  for  appropriately  in 
accordance with the arm’s length principle. Since the value of each participant’s 
relative share of contributions should accord with its share of expected benefits, 
balancing  payments  may  be  required  to  ensure  this  consistency.  The  term 
“contributions”  as  used  in  this  Chapter  includes  contributions  of  both  pre-
existing and current value made by participants to a CCA.

8.25.  Under  the  arm’s  length  principle,  the  value  of  each  participant’s 
contribution should be consistent with the value that independent enterprises 
in comparable circumstances would have assigned to that contribution. That 
is, contributions must generally be assessed based on their value at the time 
they  are  contributed,  bearing  in  mind  the  mutual  sharing  of  risks,  as  well 
as the nature and extent of the associated expected benefits to participants 
in