terprise sells unbranded Colombian coffee beans 
of a similar type, quality, and quantity as those sold between two associated 
enterprises, assuming that the controlled and uncontrolled transactions occur 
at about the same time, at the same stage in the production/distribution chain, 
and  under  similar  conditions.  If  the  only  available  uncontrolled  transaction 
involved unbranded Brazilian coffee beans, it would be appropriate to inquire 
whether the difference in the coffee beans has a material effect on the price. 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 101

For example, it could be asked whether the source of coffee beans commands a 
premium or requires a discount generally in the open market. Such information 
may be obtainable from commodity markets or may be deduced from dealer 
prices. If this difference does have a material effect on price, some adjustments 
would be appropriate. If a reasonably accurate adjustment cannot be made, the 
reliability of the CUP method would be reduced, and it might be necessary to 
select another less direct method instead.

2.25.  One illustrative case where adjustments may be required is where the 
circumstances surrounding controlled and uncontrolled sales are identical, except 
for the fact that the controlled sales price is a delivered price and the uncontrolled 
sales  are  made  f.o.b.  factory.  The  differences  in  terms  of  transportation  and 
insurance generally have a definite and reasonably ascertainable effect on price. 
Therefore, to determine the uncontrolled sales price, adjustment should be made 
to the price for the difference in delivery terms.

2.26.  As another example, assume a taxpayer sells 1 000 tons of a product 
for  USD  80  per  ton  to  an  associated  enterprise  in  its  MNE  group,  and  at 
the  same  time  sells  500  tons  of  the  same  product  for  USD  100  per  ton  to 
an independent enterprise. This case requires an evaluation of whether the 
different volumes should result in an adjustment of the transfer price. The 
relevant  market  should  be  researched  by  analysing  transactions  in  similar 
products to determine typical volume discounts.

C. Resale price method

C.1.  In general

2.27.  The resale price method begins with the price at which a product that 
has been purchased from an associated enterprise is resold to an independent 
enterprise.  This  price  (the  resale  price)  is  then  reduced  by  an  appropriate 
gross  margin  on  this  price  (the  “resale  price  margin”)  representing  the 
amount  out  of  which  the  reseller  would  seek  to  cover  its  selling  and  other 
operating expenses and, in the light of the functions performed (taking into 
account  assets  used  and  risks  assumed),  make  an  appropriate  profit.  What 
is left after subtracting the gross margin can be regarded, after adjustment 
for  other  costs  associated  with  the  purchase  of  the  product  (e.g.  customs 
duties), as an arm’s length price for the original transfer of property between 
the associated enterprises. This method is probably most useful where it is 
applied to marketing operations.

2.28.  The resale price margin of the reseller in the controlled transaction 
may  be  determined  by  reference  to  the  resale  price  margin  that  the  same 
reseller  earns  on  items  purchased  and  sold  in  comparable  uncontrolled 
transactions  (“internal  comparable”).  Also,  the  resale  price  margin  earned 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

102 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

by an independent enterprise in comparable uncontrolled transactions may 
serve as a guide (“external comparable”). Where the reseller is carrying on 
a  general  brokerage  business,  the  resale  price  margin  may  be  related  to  a 
brokerage fee, which is usually calculated as a percentage of the sales price 
of the product sold. The determination of the resale price margin in such a 
case should take into account whether the broker is acting as an agent or a 
principal.

2.29.  Following the principles in Chapter I, an uncontrolled transaction is 
comparable to a controlled transaction (i.e. it is a comparable uncontrolled 
transaction) for purposes of the resale price method if one of two conditions 
is  met:  a)  none  of  the  differences  (if  any)  between  the  transactions  being 
compared or between the enterprises undertaking those transactions could 
materially affect the resale price margin in the open market; or, b) reasonably 
accurate adjustments can be made to eliminate the material effects of such 
differences. In making comparisons for purposes of the resale price method, 
fewer  adjustments  are  normally  needed  to  account  for  product  differences 
than  under  the  CUP  method,  because  minor  product  differences  are  less 
likely to have as material an effect on profit margins as they do on price.

In  a  market  econo