 
principle, the allocation method chosen must lead to a result that is consistent 
with what comparable independent enterprises would have been prepared to 
accept.

7.25.  The  allocation  should  be  based  on  an  appropriate  measure  of  the 
usage of the service that is also easy to verify, for example turnover, staff 
employed, or an activity based key such as  orders  processed.  Whether the 
allocation method is appropriate may depend on the nature and usage of the 
service. For example, the usage or provision of payroll services may be more 
related  to  the  number  of  staff  than  to  turnover,  while  the  allocation  of  the 
stand-by costs of priority computer back-up could be allocated in proportion 
to relative expenditure on computer equipment by the group members.

7.26.  When  an  indirect-charge  method  is  used,  the  relationship  between 
the charge and the services provided may be obscured and it may become 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

322 – CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES

difficult  to  evaluate  the  benefit  provided.  Indeed,  it  may  mean  that  the 
enterprise being charged for a service itself has not related the charge to the 
service. Consequently, there is an increased risk of double taxation because it 
may be more difficult to determine a deduction for costs incurred on behalf 
of  group  members  if  compensation  cannot  be  readily  identified,  or  for  the 
recipient of the service to establish a deduction for any amount paid if it is 
unable to demonstrate that services have been provided.

B.2.2.3. Form of the compensation

7.27.  The compensation for services rendered to an associated enterprise 
may  be  included  in  the  price  for  other  transfers.  For  instance,  the  price 
for  licensing  a  patent  or  know-how  may  include  a  payment  for  technical 
assistance services or centralised services performed for the licensee or for 
managerial advice on the marketing of the goods produced under the licence. 
In such cases, the tax administration and the taxpayers would have to check 
that  there  is  no  additional  service  fee  charged  and  that  there  is  no  double 
deduction.

7.28. 
In identifying arrangements for charging any retainer for the provision 
of  “on  call”  services  (as  discussed  in  paragraphs  7.16  and  7.17),  it  may  be 
necessary to examine the terms for the actual use of the services since these 
may include provisions that no charge is made for actual use until the level of 
usage exceeds a predetermined level.

B.2.3. Calculating the arm’s length compensation

7.29. 
In  trying  to  determine  the  arm’s  length  price  in  relation  to  intra-
group services, the matter should be considered both from the perspective of 
the service provider and from the perspective of the recipient of the service. 
In  this  respect,  relevant  considerations  include  the  value  of  the  service  to 
the recipient and how much a comparable independent enterprise would be 
prepared to pay for that service in comparable circumstances, as well as the 
costs to the service provider.

7.30.  For  example,  from  the  perspective  of  an  independent  enterprise 
seeking  a  service,  the  service  providers  in  that  market  may  or  may  not  be 
willing or able to supply the service at a price that the independent enterprise 
is  prepared  to  pay.  If  the  service  providers  can  supply  the  wanted  service 
within a range of prices that the independent enterprise would be prepared to 
pay, then a deal will be struck. From the point of view of the service provider, 
a  price  below  which  it  would  not  supply  the  service  and  the  cost  to  it  are 
relevant considerations to address, but they are not necessarily determinative 
of the outcome in every case.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES – 323

B.2.3.1. Methods

7.31.  The  method  to  be  used  to  determine  arm’s  length  transfer  pricing 
for  intra-group  services  should  be  determined  according  to  the  guidelines 
in  Chapters  I,  II,  and  III.  Often,  the  application  of  these  guidelines  will 
lead  to  use  of  the  CUP  or  a  cost-based  method  (cost  plus  method  or  cost-
based  TNMM)  for  pricing  intra-group  services.  A  CUP  method  is  likely 
to  be  the  most  appropriate  method  where  there  is  a  comparable  service 
provided  between  independent  enterprises  in  the  recipient’s  market,  or  by 
the associated enterprise providing the services to an independent enterprise 
in  comparable  circumstances.  For  example,  this  might  be  the  case  where 
accounting, auditing, legal, or computer services are being provided subject 
to  the  controlled  and  uncontrolled  transactions  being  comparable.  A  cost 
based method would likely be the most appropriate method in the absence 
of a CUP where the nature of the activities involved, assets used, and risk