nvestment opportunities may be contemplated, taking 
account  of  the  specific  business  objectives  of  the  lender  and  the  context 
in  which  the  transaction  takes  place.  From  the  borrower’s  perspective,  the 
options  realistically  available  will  include  broader  considerations  than  the 
entity’s ability to service its debt, for example, the funds it actually needs to 
meet its operational requirements. In some instances, although an entity may 
have the capacity to borrow and service an additional amount of debt, it may 
choose not to do so to avoid placing negative pressure on its credit rating and 
increasing its cost of capital, and jeopardising its access to capital markets 
and its market reputation (see comments upon “The lender’s and borrower’s 
perspectives” in Section C.1.1.1 of this chapter).

10.20.  In  an  ideal  scenario,  a  comparability  analysis  would  enable  the 
identification  of  financial  transactions  between  independent  parties  which 
match the tested transaction in all respects. With the many variables involved, 
it  is  more  likely  that  potential  comparables  will  differ  from  the  tested 
transaction.  Where  differences  exist  between  the  tested  transaction  and  any 
proposed comparable, it will be necessary to consider whether such differences 
will  have  a  material  impact  on  the  price.  If  so,  it  may  be  possible,  where 
appropriate, to make comparability adjustments to improve the reliability of 
a  comparable.  This  is  more  likely  to  be  achievable  where  the  adjustment  is 
based on a quantitative factor and there is good quality data easily available 
(e.g. on currency differences) than, for instance, in trying to compare loans to 
borrowers with qualitative differences or where data is not so readily available 
(e.g. borrowers with different business strategies).

B.3.  The economically relevant characteristics of actual financial 

transactions

10.21.  To  inform  an  analysis  of  the  terms  and  conditions  of  a  financial 
transaction  as  part  of  the  accurate  delineation  of  the  actual  transaction  or 
seeking to price the accurately delineated actual transaction, the following 
economically relevant characteristics should be considered.

B.3.1. Contractual terms

10.22.  The  terms  and  conditions  of  a  financial  transaction  between 
independent enterprises are usually explicitly stated in a written agreement. 
However, between associated enterprises the contractual arrangements may 
not  always  provide  information  in  sufficient  detail  or  may  be  inconsistent 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

408 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

with  the  actual  conduct  of  the  parties  or  other  facts  and  circumstances.  It 
is therefore necessary to look to other documents, the actual conduct of the 
parties  –  notwithstanding  that  such  consideration  may  ultimately  result  in 
the conclusion that the contractual form and actual conduct are in alignment 
–  and  the  economic  principles  that  generally  govern  relationships  between 
independent enterprises in comparable circumstances in order to accurately 
delineate the actual transaction in accordance with Section D.1.1 of Chapter I.

B.3.2. Functional analysis

10.23.  In accurately delineating the actual financial transaction, a functional 
analysis is necessary. This analysis seeks to identify the functions performed, 
the  assets  used  and  the  risks  assumed  by  the  parties  to  that  controlled 
transaction.

10.24.  For  instance,  in  the  particular  case  of  an  intra-group  loan,  the  key 
functions performed by a lender to decide whether and under which terms 
to advance funds would typically include an analysis and evaluation of the 
risks  inherent  in  the  loan,  the  capability  to  commit  capital  of  the  business 
to  the  investment,  determining  the  terms  of  the  loan  and  organising  and 
documenting the loan. This may also include any ongoing monitoring and 
periodic  review  of  the  loan.  Such  a  functional  analysis  is  likely  to  include 
consideration  of  similar  information  to  that  which  a  commercial  lender 
or  ratings  agency  would  consider  in  determining  the  creditworthiness  of 
the  borrower.  An  associated  lender  will  not  necessarily  perform  all  of  the 
same functions at the same intensity as an independent lender. However, in 
considering whether a loan has been advanced on conditions which would 
have  been  made  between  independent  enterprises,  the  same  commercial 
considerations and economic circumstances are relevant (see comments on 
“The  lender’s  and  borrower’s  perspectives”  and  “Use  of  credit  ratings”  in 
Sections C.1.1.1 and C.1.1.2 of this chapter).

10.25.  When, under accurate delineation, the lender is not exercising control 
over  the  risks  associated  to  an  advance  of  funds,  or  does  not  have  the 
fi