differences between the controlled and 
uncontrolled transactions that have an effect on the size of the mark up must 
be analysed to determine what adjustments should be made to the uncontrolled 
transactions’ respective mark up.

2.51.  For this purpose, it is particularly important to consider differences 
in the level and types of expenses – operating expenses and non-operating 
expenses  including  financing  expenditures  –  associated  with  functions 
performed and risks assumed by the parties or transactions being compared. 
Consideration of these differences may indicate the following:

a)  If expenses reflect a functional difference (taking into account 
assets  used  and  risks  assumed)  which  has  not  been  taken  into 
account in applying the method, an adjustment to the cost plus 
mark up may be required.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 109

b)  If the expenses reflect additional functions that are distinct from 
the  activities  tested  by  the  method,  separate  compensation  for 
those functions may need to be determined. Such functions may 
for  example  amount  to  the  provision  of  services  for  which  an 
appropriate reward may be determined. Similarly, expenses that 
are  the  result  of  capital  structures  reflecting  non-arm’s  length 
arrangements may require separate adjustment.

c)  If  differences  in  the  expenses  of  the  parties  being  compared 
merely  reflect  efficiencies  or  inefficiencies  of  the  enterprises, 
as  would  normally  be  the  case  for  supervisory,  general,  and 
administrative expenses, then no adjustment to the gross margin 
may be appropriate.

In any of the above circumstances it may be appropriate to supplement 
the  cost  plus  and  resale  price  methods  by  considering  the  results  obtained 
from applying other methods (see paragraph 2.12).

2.52.  Another important aspect of comparability is accounting consistency. 
Where  the  accounting  practices  differ  in  the  controlled  transaction  and  the 
uncontrolled transaction, appropriate adjustments should be made to the data 
used  to  ensure  that  the  same  type  of  costs  are  used  in  each  case  to  ensure 
consistency. The gross profit mark ups must be measured consistently between 
the  associated  enterprise  and  the  independent  enterprise.  In  addition,  there 
may be differences across enterprises in the treatment of costs that affect gross 
profit mark ups that would need to be accounted for in order to achieve reliable 
comparability. In some cases it may be necessary to take into account certain 
operating expenses in order to achieve consistency and comparability; in these 
circumstances the cost plus method starts to approach a net rather than gross 
profit  analysis.  To  the  extent  that  the  analysis  takes  into  account  operating 
expenses, its reliability may be adversely affected for the reasons set forth in 
paragraphs 2.70-2.73. Thus, the safeguards described in paragraphs 2.74-2.81 
may be relevant in assessing the reliability of such analyses.

2.53.  While precise accounting standards and terms may vary, in general 
the costs and expenses of an enterprise are understood to be divisible into 
three broad categories. First, there are the direct costs of producing a product 
or service, such as the cost of raw materials. Second, there are indirect costs 
of  production,  which  although  closely  related  to  the  production  process 
may  be  common  to  several  products  or  services  (e.g.  the  costs  of  a  repair 
department  that  services  equipment  used  to  produce  different  products). 
Finally, there are the operating expenses of the enterprise as a whole, such as 
supervisory, general, and administrative expenses.

2.54.  The  distinction  between  gross  and  net  profit  analyses  may  be 
understood in the following terms. In general, the cost plus method will use 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

110 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

mark  ups  computed  after  direct  and  indirect  costs  of  production,  while  a 
net profit method will use profits computed after operating expenses of the 
enterprise  as  well.  It  must  be  recognised  that  because  of  the  variations  in 
practice among jurisdictions, it is difficult to draw any precise lines between 
the  three  categories  described  above.  Thus,  for  example,  an  application  of 
the  cost  plus  method  may  in  a  particular  case  include  the  consideration  of 
some expenses that might be considered operating expenses, as discussed in 
paragraph 2.52. Nevertheless, the problems in delineating with mathematical 
precision the boundaries of the three categories described above do not alter 
the basic practical distinction between the gross and net profit approaches.

In principle historical costs should be attributed to individual units 
2.55. 
of production, although admittedly the