ltaneously benefit from activities performed by other group members, 
a CCA can provide a mechanism for replacing a web of separate intra-group 
arm’s length payments with a more streamlined system of netted payments, 
based on aggregated benefits and aggregated contributions associated with all 
the covered activities (see also paragraphs 3.9 to 3.17 of these Guidelines). A 
CCA for the sharing in the development of intangibles can eliminate the need 
for complex cross-licensing arrangements and associated allocation of risk, 
and replace them with a more streamlined sharing of contributions and risks, 
with ownership interests of the resulting intangible(s) shared in accordance 
with  the  terms  of  the  CCA.  However,  the  streamlining  of  flows  that  may 
result from the adoption of a CCA does not affect the appropriate valuation 
of the separate contributions of the parties.

8.8. 
As  an  illustration  of  a  CCA,  take  the  example  of  an  MNE  group 
which manufactures products through three enterprises which each operate 
a production site and have their own R&D teams engaged in various projects 
to improve production processes. Those three enterprises enter into a CCA 
aimed at generating production process improvements, and as a result pool 
their  expertise  and  share  the  risks.  Since  the  CCA  grants  each  participant 
rights to the outcomes of the projects, the CCA replaces the cross-licensing 
arrangements  that  may  have  resulted  in  the  absence  of  a  CCA  and  if  the 
enterprises had individually developed certain intangibles and granted rights 
to one another.

B.2. Relationship to other chapters

8.9. 
As indicated in paragraph 8.4, there is no difference in the analytical 
framework  for  analysing  transfer  prices  for  CCAs  compared  to  analysing 
other forms of contractual relations. The guidance in Section D of Chapter I 
is relevant to the analysis of all transactions between associated enterprises, 
and  applies  to  identify  the  economically  relevant  characteristics  of  the 
commercial  or  financial  relations  between  the  parties  as  expressed  in  a 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

340 – CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS

CCA.  The  contractual  terms  of  the  CCA  provide  the  starting  point  for 
delineating the transaction between the parties and how the responsibilities, 
risks, and anticipated outcomes were intended to be allocated at the time of 
entering  into  the  arrangements.  However,  as  set  out  in  that  guidance,  the 
evidence  of  the  conduct  of  the  parties  may  clarify  or  supplement  aspects 
of  the  agreement.  The  framework  for  analysing  risk  in  Section  D.1.2.1  of 
Chapter I is relevant to determining whether parties assume risks under the 
CCA, as discussed in Section C.2 of this chapter, and the consequences for 
providing  funding  without  assuming  risk  or  performing  other  functions. 
Chapter VI provides guidance regarding the determination of arm’s length 
conditions  for  transactions  that  involve  the  use  or  transfer  of  intangibles. 
Paragraphs  6.60  to  6.64  give  relevant  guidance  on  exercising  control  over 
the financial risk if the funding is used for investment in R&D projects. The 
guidance in Sections D.3 and D.4 of Chapter VI on hard-to-value intangibles 
is equally applicable to CCAs. Chapter VII provides guidance on issues that 
arise in determining for transfer pricing purposes whether services have been 
provided by a member of an MNE group to other members of that group and, 
if so, in establishing arm’s length prices for those intra-group services. This 
chapter’s objective is to provide supplementary guidance on situations where 
resources and skills are pooled and the consideration received is, in part or 
whole, the reasonable expectation of mutual benefits. Thus, the provisions of 
Chapters VI and VII, and indeed all the other chapters of these Guidelines, 
will continue to apply to the extent relevant, for instance in measuring the 
value of a contribution to a CCA as part of the process of determining the 
proportionate  shares  of  contributions.  MNEs  are  encouraged  to  observe 
the  guidance  of  this  chapter  in  order  to  ensure  that  their  CCAs  operate  in 
accordance with the arm’s length principle.

B.3. Types of CCAs

8.10.  Two types of CCAs are commonly encountered: those established for 
the joint development, production or the obtaining of intangibles or tangible 
assets  (“development  CCAs”);  and  those  for  obtaining  services  (“services 
CCAs”).  Although  each  particular  CCA  should  be  considered  on  its  own 
facts and circumstances, key differences between these two types of CCAs 
will  generally  be  that  development  CCAs  are  expected  to  create  ongoing, 
future  benefits  for  participants,  while  services  CCAs  will  create  current 
benefits only. Development CCAs, in particular with resp