 accuracy  of  the 
projections of future cash flows or income on which the valuation is based. 
However,  because  the  accuracy  of  financial  projections  is  contingent  on 
developments in the marketplace that are both unknown and unknowable at 
the time the valuation is undertaken, and to this extent such projections are 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 297

speculative, it is essential for taxpayers and tax administrations to examine 
carefully the assumptions underlying the projections of both future revenue 
and future expense.

6.164.  In  evaluating  financial  projections,  the  source  and  purpose  of  the 
projections  can  be  particularly  important.  In  some  cases,  taxpayers  will 
regularly  prepare  financial  projections  for  business  planning  purposes.  It 
can be that such analyses are used by management of the business in making 
business  and  investment  decisions.  It  is  usually  the  case  that  projections 
prepared  for  non-tax  business  planning  purposes  are  more  reliable  than 
projections prepared exclusively for tax purposes, or exclusively for purposes 
of a transfer pricing analysis.

6.165.  The  length  of  time  covered  by  the  projections  should  also  be 
considered  in  evaluating  the  reliability  of  the  projections.  The  further  into 
the future the intangible in question can be expected to produce positive cash 
flows, the less reliable projections of income and expense are likely to be.

6.166.  A  further  consideration  in  evaluating  the  reliability  of  projections 
involves whether the intangibles and the products or services to which they 
relate  have  an  established  track  record  of  financial  performance.  Caution 
should always be used in assuming that past performance is a reliable guide 
to the future, as many factors are subject to change. However, past operating 
results  can  provide  some  useful  guidance  as  to  likely  future  performance 
of products or services that rely on intangibles. Projections with respect to 
products or services that have not been introduced to the market or that are 
still in development are inherently less reliable than those with some track 
record.

6.167.  When  deciding  whether  to  include  development  costs  in  the  cash 
flow  projections  it  is  important  to  consider  the  nature  of  the  transferred 
intangible.  Some  intangibles  may  have  indefinite  useful  lives  and  may  be 
continually developed. In these situations it is appropriate to include future 
development costs in the cash flow forecasts. Others, for example a specific 
patent, may already be fully developed and, in addition not provide a platform 
for the development of other intangibles. In these situations no development 
costs  should  be  included  in  the  cash  flow  forecasts  for  the  transferred 
intangible.

6.168.  Where, for the foregoing reasons, or any other reason, there is a basis 
to believe that the projections behind the valuation are unreliable or speculative, 
attention should be given to the guidance in Section D.3 and D.4.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

298 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

D.2.6.4.2. Assumptions regarding growth rates

6.169.  A key element of some cash flow projections that should be carefully 
examined is the projected growth rate. Often projections of future cash flows 
are based on current cash flows (or assumed initial cash flows after product 
introduction  in  the  case  of  partially  developed  intangibles)  expanded  by 
reference to a percentage growth rate. Where that is the case, the basis for 
the  assumed  growth  rate  should  be  considered.  In  particular,  it  is  unusual 
for revenues derived from a particular product to grow at a steady rate over 
a long period of time. Caution should therefore be exercised in too readily 
accepting simple models containing linear growth rates not justified on the 
basis of either experience with similar products and markets or a reasonable 
evaluation of likely future market conditions. It would generally be expected 
that a reliable application of a valuation technique based on projected future 
cash flows would examine the likely pattern of revenue and expense growth 
based on industry and company experience with similar products.

D.2.6.4.3. Discount rates

6.170.  The discount rate or rates used in converting a stream of projected cash 
flows into a present value is a critical element of a valuation model. The discount 
rate takes into account the time value of money and the risk or uncertainty of 
the anticipated cash flows. As small variations in selected discount rates can 
generate  large  variations  in  the  calculated  value  of  intangibles  using  these 
techniques,  it  is  essential  for  taxpayers  and  tax  administrations  to  give  close 
attention to the analysis performed and the assumptions made in selecting the 
discount rate or ra