od  is 
considered to be the most appropriate transfer pricing method, but also has 
importance in applying other methods that rely on comparables. In the case of 
a transfer of an intangible or rights in an intangible that provides the enterprise 
with a unique competitive advantage in the market, purportedly comparable 
intangibles  or  transactions  should  be  carefully  scrutinised.  It  is  critical  to 
assess whether potential comparables in fact exhibit similar profit potential.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 283

6.117.  Set  out  below  is  a  description  of  some  of  the  specific  features  of 
intangibles that may prove important in a comparability analysis involving 
transfers  of  intangibles  or  rights  in  intangibles.  The  following  list  is  not 
exhaustive  and  in  a  specific  case  consideration  of  additional  or  different 
factors may be an essential part of a comparability analysis.

D.2.1.1. Exclusivity

6.118.  Whether the rights in intangibles relevant to a particular transaction 
involving  the  transfer  of  intangibles  or  rights  in  intangibles  are  exclusive 
or  non-exclusive  can  be  an  important  comparability  consideration.  Some 
intangibles  allow  the  legal  owner  of  the  intangible  to  exclude  others  from 
using the intangible. A patent, for example, grants an exclusive right to use the 
invention covered by the patent for a period of years. If the party controlling 
intangible  rights  can  exclude  other  enterprises  from  the  market,  or  exclude 
them  from  using  intangibles  that  provide  a  market  advantage,  that  party 
may enjoy a high degree of market power or market influence. A party with 
non-exclusive rights to intangibles will not be able to exclude all competitors 
and will generally not have the same degree of market power or influence. 
Accordingly,  the  exclusive  or  non-exclusive  nature  of  intangibles  or  rights 
in  intangibles  should  be  considered  in  connection  with  the  comparability 
analysis.

D.2.1.2. Extent and duration of legal protection

6.119.  The extent and duration of legal protection of the intangibles relevant 
to  a  particular  transfer  can  be  an  important  comparability  consideration. 
Legal protections associated with some intangibles can prevent competitors 
from entering a particular market. For other intangibles, such as know-how 
or trade secrets, available legal protections may have a different nature and 
not  be  as  strong  or  last  as  long.  For  intangibles  with  limited  useful  lives, 
the duration of legal protections can be important since the duration of the 
intangible  rights  will  affect  the  expectation  of  the  parties  to  a  transaction 
with regard to the future benefits from the exploitation of the intangible. For 
example, two otherwise comparable patents will not have equivalent value if 
one expires at the end of one year while the other expires only after ten years.

D.2.1.3. Geographic scope

6.120.  The  geographic  scope  of  the  intangibles  or  rights  in  intangibles 
will  be  an  important  comparability  consideration.  A  global  grant  of  rights 
to  intangibles  may  be  more  valuable  than  a  grant  limited  to  one  or  a  few 
jurisdictions,  depending  on  the  nature  of  the  product,  the  nature  of  the 
intangible, and the nature of the markets in question.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

284 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

D.2.1.4. Useful life
6.121.  Many intangibles have a limited useful life. The useful life of a particular 
intangible  can  be  affected  by  the  nature  and  duration  of  the  legal  protections 
afforded to the intangible, as noted above. The useful life of some intangibles 
can also be affected by the rate of technological change in an industry and by the 
development of new and potentially improved products. It may also be the case 
that the useful life of particular intangibles can be extended.
6.122.  In conducting a comparability analysis, it will therefore be important 
to consider the expected useful life of the intangibles in question. In general, 
intangibles expected to provide market advantages for a longer period of time 
will be more valuable than similar intangibles providing such advantages for 
a shorter period of time, other things being equal. In evaluating the useful 
life of intangibles it is also important to consider the use being made of the 
intangible.  The  useful  life  of  an  intangible  that  forms  a  base  for  ongoing 
research  and  development  may  extend  beyond  the  commercial  life  of  the 
current generation product line based on that intangible.

D.2.1.5. Stage of development

6.123. 
In conducting a comparability analysis, it may be important to consider 
the stage of development of particular intangibles. It is often the case that an 
intangible  is  transferred  in  a  controlled  transaction  at  a  po