 expense of other jurisdictions 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 209

which,  in  order  to  protect  their  own  tax  base,  would  have  to  determine 
systematically whether the prices or results permitted under the safe harbour 
are  consistent  with  what  would  be  obtained  by  the  application  of  their  own 
transfer  pricing  rules.  The  administrative  burden  saved  by  the  jurisdiction 
offering the safe harbour would therefore be shifted to the foreign jurisdictions.
4.116. 
In  cases  involving  smaller  taxpayers  or  less  complex  transactions, 
the  benefits  of  safe  harbours  may  outweigh  the  problems  raised  by  such 
provisions. Provided the safe harbour is elective, taxpayers may consider that 
a moderate level of double taxation, if any arises because of the safe harbour, 
is an acceptable price to be paid in order to obtain relief from the necessity 
of complying with complex transfer pricing rules. One may argue that the 
taxpayer is capable of making its own decision in electing the safe harbour as 
to whether the possibility of double taxation is acceptable or not.
4.117.  Where  safe  harbours  are  adopted  unilaterally,  care  should  be 
taken  in  setting  safe  harbour  parameters  to  avoid  double  taxation,  and  the 
jurisdiction adopting the safe harbour should generally be prepared to consider 
modification  of  the  safe-harbour  outcome  in  individual  cases  under  mutual 
agreement procedures to mitigate the risk of double taxation. At a minimum, 
in order to ensure that taxpayers make decisions on a fully informed basis, the 
jurisdiction offering the safe harbour would need to make it explicit in advance 
whether  or  not  it  would  attempt  to  alleviate  any  eventual  double  taxation 
resulting from the use of the safe harbour. Obviously, if a safe harbour is not 
elective and if the jurisdiction in question refuses to consider double tax relief, 
the risk of double taxation arising from the safe harbour would be unacceptably 
high and inconsistent with double tax relief provisions of treaties.
4.118.  On the other hand, if a unilateral safe harbour permits taxpayers to 
report income below arm’s length levels in the jurisdiction providing the safe 
harbour, taxpayers would have an incentive to elect application of the safe 
harbour. In such a case, there would be no assurance that the taxpayer would 
report income in other jurisdictions on a consistent basis or at levels above 
arm’s  length  levels  based  on  the  safe  harbour.  Moreover  it  is  unlikely  that 
other  tax  administrations  would  have  the  authority  to  require  that  income 
be  reported  above  arm’s  length  levels.  While  the  burden  of  under-taxation 
in such situations would fall exclusively upon the jurisdiction adopting the 
safe harbour provision, and should not adversely affect the ability of other 
jurisdictions  to  tax  arm’s  length  amounts  of  income,  double  non-taxation 
would be unavoidable and could result in distortions of investment and trade.

4.119. 
It  is  important  to  observe  that  the  problems  of  non-arm’s  length 
results  and  potential  double  taxation  and  double  non-taxation  arising  under 
safe harbours could be largely eliminated if safe harbours were adopted on 
a bilateral or multilateral basis by means of competent authority agreements 
between  jurisdictions.  Under  such  a  procedure,  two  or  more  jurisdictions 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

210 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

could,  by  agreement,  define  a  category  of  taxpayers  and/or  transactions  to 
which a safe harbour provision would apply and by agreement establish pricing 
parameters that would be accepted by each of the contracting jurisdictions if 
consistently  applied  in  each  of  the  jurisdictions.  Such  agreements  could  be 
published in advance and taxpayers could consistently report results in each 
of the affected jurisdictions in accordance with the agreement.

4.120.  The rigor of having two or more jurisdictions with potentially divergent 
interests  agree  to  such  a  safe  harbour  should  serve  to  limit  some  of  the 
arbitrariness that otherwise might characterise a unilateral safe harbour and 
would  largely  eliminate  safe  harbour-created  double  taxation  and  double 
non-taxation  concerns.  Particularly  for  some  smaller  taxpayers  and/or  less 
complex  transactions,  creation  of  bilateral  or  multilateral  safe  harbours 
by  competent  authority  agreement  may  provide  a  worthwhile  approach  to 
transfer pricing simplification that would avoid some of the potential pitfalls 
of unilateral safe harbour regimes.

4.121.  The  Annex  I  to  Chapter  IV  of  these  Guidelines  contains  sample 
memoranda  of  understanding  that  competent  authorities  might  use  to 
establish  bilateral  or  multilateral  safe  harbours  in