 cannot, the application of a residual analysis may be 
appropriate. A residual analysis divides the relevant profits from the controlled 
transactions  under  examination  into  two  categories.  In  the  first  category 
are profits attributable to contributions which can be reliably benchmarked: 
typically  less  complex  contributions  for  which  reliable  comparables  can  be 
found. Ordinarily this initial remuneration would be determined by applying 
one  of  the  traditional  transaction  methods  or  a  transactional  net  margin 
method  to  identify  the  remuneration  of  comparable  transactions  between 
independent enterprises. Thus, it would generally not account for the return 
that would be generated by a second category of contributions which may be 
unique and valuable, and/or are attributable to a high level of integration or the 
shared assumption of economically significant risks. Typically, the allocation 
of the residual profit among the parties will be based on the relative value of 
the second category of contributions of the parties in the same way as in the 
application of the contribution analysis outlined above and in accordance with 
the guidance as described in Section C.5.

2.153.  Example 11 in Annex II to Chapter II illustrates the application of a 
residual analysis under a transactional profit split method.

C.4.  Guidance for application – Determining the profits to be split

2.154.  The  relevant  profits  to  be  split  under  the  transactional  profit  split 
method  are  those  of  the  associated  enterprises  arising  as  a  result  of  the 
controlled  transactions  under  review.  It  is  essential  to  identify  the  level  of 
aggregation, see paragraphs 3.9-3.12. In determining the relevant profits, it is 
therefore essential to first identify and accurately delineate the transactions 
to be covered by the transactional profit split method, and from this identify 
the relevant income and expense amounts for each party in relation to those 
transactions. See Section C.4.2, below. Example 12 in Annex II to Chapter II 
of these Guidelines illustrates the principles of this section.

2.155.  Where  the  relevant  profits  to  be  split  are  comprised  of  profits  of 
two or more associated enterprises, the relevant financial data of the parties 
to the transaction to which a transactional profit split is applied need to be 
put  on  a  common  basis  as  to  accounting  practice  and  currency,  and  then 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 139

combined. Because accounting standards can have significant effects on the 
determination of the profits to be split, accounting standards should, in cases 
where the taxpayer chooses to use the transactional profit split method, be 
selected  in  advance  of  applying  the  method  and  applied  consistently  over 
the  lifetime  of  the  arrangement.  Differences  in  accounting  standards  may 
affect the timing of revenue recognition as well as the treatment of expenses 
in arriving at profits. Material differences between the accounting standards 
used by the parties should be identified and aligned.

2.156.  Financial accounting may provide the starting point for determining 
the profit to be split in the absence of harmonised tax accounting standards. 
The use of other financial data (e.g. cost accounting) should be permitted where 
such accounts exist, are reliable, auditable and sufficiently transactional. In this 
context, product-line income statements or divisional accounts may prove to be 
the most useful accounting records.

2.157.  However, except in circumstances where the total activities of each of 
the parties are the subject of the profit split, the financial data will need to be 
segregated and allocations made in accordance with the accurately delineated 
transaction(s) so that the profits relating to the combined contributions made 
by the parties are identified. For example, a product supplier in a profit split 
with an associated enterprise engaged in European marketing and distribution 
would need to identify the profits arising from its production of goods for the 
European  market,  and  exclude  the  profits  arising  from  the  production  of 
goods for other markets. The exercise may be relatively simple if the same 
goods  are  supplied  to  all  markets,  but  will  be  more  complex  if  different 
goods with different production costs or with different embedded technology, 
for  example,  are  supplied  to  different  markets.  Similarly,  if  the  associated 
enterprise  engaged  in  European  marketing  and  distribution  buys  products 
from other sources, it will need to segregate its financial data in a way that 
reflects the revenues, costs, and profits relating to the goods purchased from 
the associated product supplier in the profit split. Experience suggests that 
this initial stage in performing a profit split can in som