n  exception  to  this  may  be  permitted  where  the  refund  is 
treated as revenue of the MNE group under the applicable accounting standard or in the source of data 
used  to  complete  Table  1.  Where  this  is  the  case,  taxpayers  should  provide  the  following  statement  in 
Table 3: "Tax refunds are reported in Revenues and not in Income Tax Paid (on Cash Basis)".  

Inclusive Framework members are expected to implement the above guidance as soon as possible, taking 
into account the specific domestic circumstances. It is recognised that time may be needed for jurisdictions 
and MNE Groups to take this guidance into account. Jurisdictions may thus allow some flexibility during a 
short  transitional  period.  During  this  short  transitional  period,  taxpayers  are  encouraged  to  include 
voluntarily, if relevant, the statement "Tax refunds are reported in Revenues and not in Income Tax Paid 
(on Cash Basis)" in Table 3. 

Fair value accounting (November 2017) (cf. question 1 on definition of revenues) 

5.1 When financial statements that were prepared using fair value accounting are used 
as the source of data, can the amounts reported as revenue and profits in those financial 
statements be reported as Revenue and Profits in the CbC report without further 
adjustments?  

Yes. The amount of revenues and profits determined in accordance with fair value accounting and reported 
in financial statements may be reported in the CbC report without further adjustment. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
10 |   

Positive and negative figures in completing Table 1 (November 2017; October 
2022)  

6.1 If a Constituent Entity reports a negative figure for accumulated earnings in its 
financial statements, should the negative figure be reported in the column "accumulated 
earnings" in Table 1? If there are two or more Constituent Entities in a jurisdiction, 
should the negative figure reported by a Constituent Entity be netted with the earnings 
from the other Constituent Entity (Entities) per jurisdiction in Table 1?  

The negative figure for accumulated earnings should be reported in Table 1 without modification. Where 
there are two or more Constituent Entities in the same jurisdiction, the negative figures for accumulated 
earnings, if there are any, should be netted with the positive figures for accumulated earnings. Where this 
is the case, taxpayers should provide the following statement in Table 3: "Accumulated earnings include 
negative  figures  for  jurisdiction  [--]".  Inclusive  Framework  members  are  encouraged  to  require  their 
taxpayers to provide the above information in Table 3 as soon as possible, taking into account the specific 
domestic circumstances. 

6.2 When should positive amounts be used in completing Table 1 and in what 
circumstances should negative amounts be used? 

The BEPS Action 13 report provides that in completing the CbC reporting template an MNE group may 
choose  to  use  data  from  its  consolidation  reporting  packages,  from  separate  entity  statutory  financial 
statements, regulatory financial statements or internal management accounts, so long as it consistently 
uses the same sources of data from year to year. However, uncertainty has arisen as to whether specific 
amounts should be  included in Table 1 as  positive  or as negative  amounts. The table below has been 
compiled to assist MNE groups in the preparation of Table 1 and tax administrations in the interpretation 
of the information contained in an MNE group’s CbC report.  

For the avoidance of doubt, this guidance does not determine whether an amount should be included in 
the relevant column of Table 1 nor what that amount should be, as these depend upon the treatment of 
items in the source of data used. This guidance solely concerns the situations in which a given number 
should be reported in Table 1 as a positive amount or a negative amount. 

Positive amounts 

Negative amounts 

Unrelated Party Revenues, 
Related  Party  Revenues 
and Total Revenues 

Gross  Unrelated  Party  Revenues,  Related  Party 
Revenues  and  Total  Revenues,  including  income, 
gains and other inflows, should be included in Table 1 
as  positive  amounts.  The  amount  of  any  income 
items  shown  on  the  income  statement  as  a  net 
amount does not need to be adjusted from that net 
amount.  

Profit (Loss) before Income 
Tax 

Where the sum of profits and losses of all Constituent 
Entities in a jurisdiction is an overall net profit, Profit 
(Loss)  before  Income  Tax  should  be  a  positive 
amount.  

Where  Constituent  Entities  in  a  jurisdiction  have  negative 
Unrelated Party Revenues, Related Party Revenues and/or 
Total  Revenues,  this  should  be  included  in  Table  1  as  a 
negative  amount  even  if  the  MNE  group  has  positive 
revenues  overall.  Depending  on  the  applicable  accounting 
rules, this 