changed via the competent authorities, with 
all the safeguards that are built into such exchanges. Practical information 
on  simultaneous  examinations  can  be  found  in  the  relevant  module  of  the 
Manual  on  Information  Exchange  that  was  adopted  by  the  Committee  on 
Fiscal Affairs on 23 January 2006 (see www.oecd.org/ctp/eoi/manual).

4.81.  While  provisions  that  follow  Article  26  of  the  OECD  Model  Tax 
Convention  may  provide  the  legal  basis  for  conducting  simultaneous 
examinations, competent authorities frequently conclude working arrangements 
that lay down the objectives of their simultaneous tax examination programmes 
and  practical  procedures  connected  with  the  simultaneous  tax  examination 
and  exchange  of  information.  Once  such  an  agreement  has  been  reached 
on  the  general  lines  to  be  followed  and  specific  cases  have  been  selected, 
tax  examiners  and  inspectors  of  each  state  will  separately  carry  out  their 
examination within their own jurisdiction and pursuant to their domestic law 
and administrative practice.

D.2.  Legal basis for simultaneous tax examinations

4.82.  Simultaneous tax examinations are within the scope of the exchange 
of  information  provision  based  on  Article  26  of  the  OECD  Model  Tax 
Convention.  Article  26  provides  for  co-operation  between  the  competent 
authorities of the Contracting States in the form of exchanges of information 
necessary  for  carrying  out  the  provisions  of  the  Convention  or  of  their 
domestic laws concerning taxes covered by the Convention. Article 26 and 
the  Commentary  do  not  restrict  the  possibilities  of  assistance  to  the  three 
methods of exchanging information mentioned in the Commentary (exchange 
on request, spontaneous exchanges, and automatic exchanges).

4.83.  Simultaneous tax examinations may be authorised outside the context 
of double tax treaties. For example, Article 12 of the Nordic Convention on 
Mutual  Assistance  in  Tax  Matters  governs  exchange  of  information  and 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

200 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

assistance in tax collection between the Nordic countries and provides for the 
possibility of simultaneous tax examinations. This convention gives common 
guidelines for the selection of cases and for carrying out such examinations. 
Article 8 of the joint Council of Europe and OECD Convention on Mutual 
Administrative  Assistance  in  Tax  Matters  also  provides  expressly  for  the 
possibility of simultaneous tax examinations.

4.84. 
In  all  cases  the  information  obtained  by  the  tax  administration  of 
a  state  has  to  be  treated  as  confidential  under  its  domestic  legislation  and 
may  be  used  only  for  certain  tax  purposes  and  disclosed  only  to  certain 
persons and authorities involved in specifically defined tax matters covered 
by the tax treaty or mutual assistance agreement. The taxpayers affected are 
normally notified of the fact that they have been selected for a simultaneous 
examination and in some jurisdictions they may have the right to be informed 
when the tax administrations are considering a simultaneous tax examination 
or when information will be transmitted in conformity with Article 26. In 
such  cases,  the  competent  authority  should  inform  its  counterpart  in  the 
foreign state that such disclosure will occur.

D.3.  Simultaneous tax examinations and transfer pricing

4.85. 
In  selecting  transfer  pricing  cases  for  simultaneous  examinations, 
there  may  be  major  obstacles  caused  by  the  differences  in  time  limits  for 
conducting  examinations  or  making  assessments  in  different  jurisdictions 
and the different tax periods open for examination. However, these problems 
may be mitigated by an early exchange of examination schedules between the 
relevant competent authorities to find out in which cases the tax examination 
periods  coincide  and  to  synchronise  future  examination  periods.  While 
at  first  glance  an  early  exchange  of  examination  schedules  would  seem 
beneficial, some jurisdictions have found that the chances of a treaty partner 
accepting  a  proposal  are  considerably  better  when  one  is  able  to  present 
issues more comprehensively to justify a simultaneous examination.

4.86.  Once a case is selected for a simultaneous examination it is customary 
for tax inspectors or examiners to meet, to plan, to co-ordinate and to follow 
closely the progress of the simultaneous tax examination. Especially in complex 
cases, meetings of the tax inspectors or examiners concerned may also be held 
with taxpayer participation to clarify factual issues. In those jurisdictions where 
the  taxpayer  has  the  right  to  be  consulted  before  information  is  transferred 
to  another  tax  administration,  this  procedure  should  also  be  followed  in  the 
conte