le arm’s length arrangements.

1.54.  The functional analysis should consider the type of assets used, such 
as plant and equipment, the use of valuable intangibles, financial assets, etc., 
and  the  nature  of  the  assets  used,  such  as  the  age,  market  value,  location, 
property right protections available, etc.

1.55.  The functional analysis may show that the MNE group has fragmented 
highly  integrated  functions  across  several  group  companies.  There  may 
be  considerable  interdependencies  between  the  fragmented  activities.  For 
example, the separation into different legal entities of logistics, warehousing, 
marketing,  and  sales  functions  may  require  considerable  co-ordination  in 
order that the separate activities interact effectively. Sales activities are likely 
to  be  highly  dependent  on  marketing,  and  fulfilment  of  sales,  including  the 
anticipated  impact  of  marketing  activities,  would  require  alignment  with 
stocking processes and logistics capability. That required co-ordination may 
be  performed  by  some  or  all  of  the  associated  enterprises  performing  the 
fragmented  activities,  performed  through  a  separate  co-ordination  function, 
or performed through a combination of both. Risk may be mitigated through 
contributions  from  all  the  parties,  or  risk  mitigation  activities  may  be 
undertaken mainly by the co-ordination function. Therefore, when conducting 
a  functional  analysis  to  identify  the  commercial  or  financial  relations  in 
fragmented activities, it will be important to determine whether those activities 
are highly interdependent, and, if so, the nature of the interdependencies and 
how the commercial activity to which the associated enterprises contribute is 
co-ordinated.

D.1.2.1. Analysis of risks in commercial or financial relations1

1.56.  A  functional  analysis  is  incomplete  unless  the  material  risks 
assumed by each party have been identified and considered since the actual 
assumption  of  risks  would  influence  the  prices  and  other  conditions  of 

1. 

The  guidance  in  this  chapter,  and  in  this  section  on  risk  in  particular,  is  not 
specific to any particular industry sector. While the basic concept that a party 
bearing risks must have the ability to effectively deal with those risks applies 
to insurance, banking, and other financial services businesses, these regulated 
sectors  are  required  to  follow  rules  prescribing  arrangements  for  risks,  and 
how risks are recognised, measured, and disclosed. The regulatory approach to 
risk allocation for regulated entities should be taken into account and reference 
made  as  appropriate  to  the  transfer  pricing  guidance  specific  to  financial 
services  businesses  in  the  Report  on  the  Attribution  of  Profits  to  Permanent 
Establishments (OECD, 2010).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

48 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

transactions between the associated enterprises. Usually, in the open market, 
the assumption of increased risk would also be compensated by an increase 
in the expected return, although the actual return may or may not increase 
depending on the degree to which the risks are actually realised. The level and 
assumption  of  risk,  therefore,  are  economically  relevant  characteristics  that 
can be significant in determining the outcome of a transfer pricing analysis.

1.57.  Risk  is  inherent  in  business  activities.  Enterprises  undertake 
commercial activities because they seek opportunities to make profits, but 
those opportunities carry uncertainty that the required resources to pursue 
the  opportunities  either  will  be  greater  than  expected  or  will  not  generate 
the  expected  returns.  Identifying  risks  goes  hand  in  hand  with  identifying 
functions  and  assets  and  is  integral  to  the  process  of  identifying  the 
commercial or financial relations between the associated enterprises and of 
accurately delineating the transaction or transactions.

1.58.  The assumption of risks associated with a commercial opportunity 
affects  the  profit  potential  of  that  opportunity  in  the  open  market,  and 
the  allocation  of  risks  assumed  between  the  parties  to  the  arrangement 
affects how profits or losses resulting from the transaction are allocated at 
arm’s  length  through  the  pricing  of  the  transaction.  Therefore,  in  making 
comparisons between controlled and uncontrolled transactions and between 
controlled  and  uncontrolled  parties  it  is  necessary  to  analyse  what  risks 
have  been  assumed,  what  functions  are  performed  that  relate  to  or  affect 
the  assumption  or  impact  of  these  risks  and  which  party  or  parties  to  the 
transaction assume these risks.

1.59.  This  section  provides  guidance  on  the  nature  and  sources  of  risk 
relevant to a transfer pricing analysis in order 