l  advantage.  Patents  are  intangibles 
within the meaning of Section A.1.

A.4.2. Know-how and trade secrets

6.20.  Know-how and trade secrets are proprietary information or knowledge 
that  assist  or  improve  a  commercial  activity,  but  that  are  not  registered  for 
protection in the manner of a patent or trademark. Know-how and trade secrets 
generally  consist  of  undisclosed  information  of  an  industrial,  commercial 
or  scientific  nature  arising  from  previous  experience,  which  has  practical 
application  in  the  operation  of  an  enterprise.  Know-how  and  trade  secrets 
may  relate  to  manufacturing,  marketing,  research  and  development,  or  any 
other commercial activity. The value of know-how and trade secrets is often 
dependent on the ability of the enterprise to preserve the confidentiality of the 
know-how or trade secret. In certain industries the disclosure of information 
necessary  to  obtain  patent  protection  could  assist  competitors  in  developing 
alternative  solutions.  Accordingly,  an  enterprise  may,  for  sound  business 
reasons, choose not to register patentable know-how, which may nonetheless 
contribute substantially to the success of the enterprise. The confidential nature 
of know-how and trade secrets may be protected to some degree by (i) unfair 
competition  or  similar  laws,  (ii)  employment  contracts,  and  (iii)  economic 
and  technological  barriers  to  competition.  Know-how  and  trade  secrets  are 
intangibles within the meaning of Section A.1.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

252 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

A.4.3. Trademarks, trade names and brands

6.21.  A trademark is a unique name, symbol, logo or picture that the owner 
may use to distinguish its products and services from those of other entities. 
Proprietary  rights  in  trademarks  are  often  confirmed  through  a  registration 
system. The registered owner of a trademark may exclude others from using 
the  trademark  in  a  manner  that  would  create  confusion  in  the  marketplace. 
A  trademark  registration  may  continue  indefinitely  if  the  trademark  is 
continuously  used  and  the  registration  appropriately  renewed.  Trademarks 
may be established for goods or services, and may apply to a single product 
or service, or to a line of products or services. Trademarks are perhaps most 
familiar at the consumer market level, but they are likely to be encountered at 
all market levels. Trademarks are intangibles within the meaning of Section A.1.

6.22.  A trade name (often but not always the name of an enterprise) may 
have the same force of market penetration as a trademark and may indeed be 
registered in some specific form as a trademark. The trade names of certain 
MNEs may be readily recognised, and may be used in marketing a variety 
of goods and services. Trade names are intangibles within the meaning of 
Section A.1.

6.23.  The term “brand” is sometimes used interchangeably with the terms 
“trademark” and “trade name.” In other contexts a brand is thought of as a 
trademark or trade name imbued with social and commercial significance. A 
brand may, in fact, represent a combination of intangibles and/or other items, 
including  among  others,  trademarks,  trade  names,  customer  relationships, 
reputational characteristics, and goodwill. It may sometimes be difficult or 
impossible to segregate or separately transfer the various items contributing 
to brand value. A brand may consist of a single intangible, or a collection of 
intangibles, within the meaning of Section A.1.

A.4.4. Rights under contracts and government licences

6.24.  Government licences and concessions may be important to a particular 
business  and  can  cover  a  wide  range  of  business  relationships.  They  may 
include, among others, a government grant of rights to exploit specific natural 
resources or public goods (e.g. a licence of bandwidth spectrum), or to carry 
on  a  specific  business  activity.  Government  licences  and  concessions  are 
intangibles within the meaning of Section A.1. However, government licences 
and concessions should be distinguished from company registration obligations 
that  are  preconditions  for  doing  business  in  a  particular  jurisdiction.  Such 
obligations are not intangibles within the meaning of Section A.1.

6.25.  Rights under contracts may also be important to a particular business 
and  can  cover  a  wide  range  of  business  relationships.  They  may  include, 
among others, contracts with suppliers and key customers, and agreements to 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 253

make available the services of one or more employees. Rights under contracts 
are intangibles within the meaning of Section A.1.

A.4.5. Licences and similar limited rights in intangibles

6.26.  Limited rights in intangibles are commonly transferred by means of 
a licence or other simil