ment. Such approaches 
are  generally  based  on  projections  of  cash  flows  and  benefits  expected  to 
arise at some future date following the transfer and the assumed successful 
completion of further development activities.
6.151.  Caution  should  be  exercised  in  applying  profit  split  approaches  to 
determine estimates of the contributions of the parties to the creation of income 
in years following the transfer, or an arm’s length allocation of future income, 
with  respect  to  partially  developed  intangibles.  The  contribution  or  value  of 
work undertaken prior to the transfer may bear no relationship to the cost of 
that  work.  For  example,  a  chemical  compound  with  potentially  blockbuster 
pharmaceutical indications might be developed in the laboratory at relatively 
little cost. In addition, a variety of difficult to evaluate factors would need to be 
taken into account in such a profit split analysis. These would include the relative 
riskiness and value of research contributions before and after the transfer, the 
relative  risk  and  its  effect  on  value,  for  other  development  activities  carried 
out before and after the transfer, the appropriate amortisation rate for various 
contributions to the intangible value, assumptions regarding the time at which 
any potential new products might be introduced, and the value of contributions 
other than intangibles to the ultimate generation of profit. Income and cash flow 
projections in such situations can sometimes be especially speculative. These 
factors can combine to call the reliability of such an application of a profit split 
analysis into question. See Section D.4 on hard-to-value intangibles.

6.152.  Where limited rights in fully developed intangibles are transferred 
in  a  licence  or  similar  transaction,  and  reliable  comparable  uncontrolled 
transactions cannot be identified, a transactional profit split method can often 
be utilised to evaluate the respective contributions of the parties to earning 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 293

the relevant income. The profit contribution of the rights in intangibles made 
available by the licensor or other transferor would, in such a circumstance, 
be  one  of  the  factors  contributing  to  the  earning  of  income  following 
the  transfer.  However,  other  factors  would  also  need  to  be  considered. 
In  particular,  functions  performed  and  risks  assumed  by  the  licensee/
transferee should specifically be taken into account in such an analysis. Other 
intangibles used by the licensor/transferor and by the licensee/transferee in 
their respective businesses should similarly be considered, as well as other 
relevant factors. Careful attention should be given in such an analysis to the 
limitations imposed by the terms of the transfer on the use of the intangibles 
by the licensee/transferee and on the rights of the licensee/transferee to use 
the intangibles for purposes of ongoing research and development. Further, 
assessing  contributions  of  the  licensee  to  enhancements  in  the  value  of 
licensed intangibles may be important. The allocation of income in such an 
analysis would depend on the findings of the functional analysis, including an 
analysis of the relevant risks assumed. It should not be assumed that all of the 
residual profit after functional returns would necessarily be allocated to the 
licensor/transferor in a profit split analysis related to a licensing arrangement.

D.2.6.3. Use of valuation techniques
6.153. 
In  situations  where  reliable  comparable  uncontrolled  transactions 
for  a  transfer  of  one  or  more  intangibles  cannot  be  identified,  it  may  also 
be  possible  to  use  valuation  techniques  to  estimate  the  arm’s  length  price 
for  intangibles  transferred  between  associated  enterprises.  In  particular, 
the  application  of  income  based  valuation  techniques,  especially  valuation 
techniques premised on the calculation of the discounted value of projected 
future  income  streams  or  cash  flows  derived  from  the  exploitation  of  the 
intangible being valued, may be particularly useful when properly applied. 
Depending  on  the  facts  and  circumstances,  valuation  techniques  may  be 
used by tax payers and tax administrations as a part of one of the five OECD 
transfer  pricing  methods  described  in  Chapter  II,  or  as  a  tool  that  can  be 
usefully applied in identifying an arm’s length price.

6.154.  Where valuation techniques are utilised in a transfer pricing analysis 
involving the transfer of intangibles or rights in intangibles, it is necessary 
to apply such techniques in a manner that is consistent with the arm’s length 
principle  and  the  principles  of  these  Guidelines.  In  particular,  due  regard 
should  be  given  to  the  principles  contained  in  Chapters  I-III.  Principles 
related to realisticall