  goods  are  further  processed 
or  incorporated  into  a  more  complicated  product  so  that  their  identity  is 
lost or transformed (e.g. where components are joined together in finished 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

104 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

or  semi-finished  goods).  Another  example  where  the  resale  price  margin 
requires  particular  care  is  where  the  reseller  contributes  substantially  to 
the  creation  or  maintenance  of  intangible  property  associated  with  the 
product (e.g. trademarks or trade names) which are owned by an associated 
enterprise. In such cases, the contribution of the goods originally transferred 
to the value of the final product cannot be easily evaluated.

2.36.  A resale price margin is more accurate where it is realised within a 
short time of the reseller’s purchase of the goods. The more time that elapses 
between  the  original  purchase  and  resale  the  more  likely  it  is  that  other 
factors – changes in the market, in rates of exchange, in costs, etc. – will need 
to be taken into account in any comparison.

2.37. 
It should be expected that the amount of the resale price margin will 
be influenced by the level of activities performed by the reseller. This level 
of activities can range widely from the case where the reseller performs only 
minimal services as a forwarding agent to the case where the reseller takes 
on the full risk of ownership together with the full responsibility for and the 
risks  involved  in  advertising,  marketing,  distributing  and  guaranteeing  the 
goods, financing stocks, and other connected services. If the reseller in the 
controlled  transaction  does  not  carry  on  a  substantial  commercial  activity 
but only transfers the goods to a third party, the resale price margin could, 
in light of the functions performed, be a small one. The resale price margin 
could be higher where it can be demonstrated that the reseller has some special 
expertise  in  the  marketing  of  such  goods,  in  effect  bears  special  risks,  or 
contributes substantially to the creation or maintenance of intangible property 
associated with the product. However, the level of activity performed by the 
reseller, whether minimal or substantial, would need to be well supported by 
relevant evidence. This would include justification for marketing expenditures 
that might be considered unreasonably high; for example, when part or most 
of the promotional expenditure was clearly incurred as a service performed in 
favour of the legal owner of the trademark. In such a case the cost plus method 
may well supplement the resale price method.

2.38.  Where  the  reseller  is  clearly  carrying  on  a  substantial  commercial 
activity in addition to the resale activity itself, then a reasonably substantial 
resale price margin might be expected. If the reseller in its activities employs 
certain  assets  (e.g.  intangibles  used  by  the  reseller,  such  as  its  marketing 
organisation), it may be inappropriate to evaluate the arm’s length conditions 
in  the  controlled  transaction  using  an  unadjusted  resale  price  margin 
derived  from  uncontrolled  transactions  in  which  the  uncontrolled  reseller 
does not employ similar assets. If the reseller possesses valuable marketing 
intangibles,  the  resale  price  margin  in  the  uncontrolled  transaction  may 
underestimate the profit to which the reseller in the controlled transaction is 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 105

entitled,  unless  the  comparable  uncontrolled  transaction  involves  the  same 
reseller or a reseller with similarly valuable marketing intangibles.

2.39. 
In a case where there is a chain of distribution of goods through an 
intermediate  company,  it  may  be  relevant  for  tax  administrations  to  look 
not  only  at  the  resale  price  of  goods  that  have  been  purchased  from  the 
intermediate  company  but  also  at  the  price  that  such  company  pays  to  its 
own supplier and the functions that the intermediate company undertakes. 
There could well be practical difficulties in obtaining this information and 
the true function of the intermediate company may be difficult to determine. 
If it cannot be demonstrated that the intermediate company either assumes an 
economically significant risk or performs an economic function in the chain 
that has increased the value of the goods, then any element in the price that is 
claimed to be attributable to the activities of the intermediate company would 
reasonably be attributed elsewhere in the MNE group, because independent 
enterprises would not normally have allowed such a company to share in the 
profits of the transaction.

2.40.  The resale price margin should also be expected to vary according to 
whether the reseller has the exclusive right to resell the goods. Arrangements 
of  this  kind  a