ke. The nature of the action to be taken is likely to 
depend on the seriousness of the non compliance.

76. 
The most drastic action is revocation, which has the effect that the 
taxpayer  is  treated  as  if  the  MAP  APA  had  never  been  entered  into.  Less 
serious is cancellation, which means the taxpayer is treated as if the MAP 
APA  had  been  effective  and  in  force  but  only  up  to  the  cancellation  date 
and not for the whole of the proposed period. If the MAP APA is cancelled 
or  revoked,  then  for  those  tax  years  or  accounting  periods  for  which  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

540 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS

cancellation or revocation is effective, the relevant tax administrations and 
taxpayers  will  retain  all  their  rights  under  their  domestic  laws  and  treaty 
provisions, as though the MAP APA had not been undertaken. Finally, the 
MAP APA may be revised, which means that the taxpayer will still have the 
benefit  of  the  MAP  APA  for  the  whole  of  the  proposed  period,  albeit  that 
different terms apply before and after the revision date. Further details are 
provided below.

E.3.1. Revoking a MAP APA
77. 
by mutual agreement) if it is established that:

A tax administration may revoke a MAP APA (either unilaterally or 

a)  There  was  a  misrepresentation,  mistake  or  omission  that  was 
attributable  to  the  neglect,  carelessness,  or  wilful  default  of  a 
taxpayer when filing the MAP APA request and submission, the 
annual reports, or other supporting documentation or in supplying 
any related information; or

b)  The participating taxpayer(s) failed to materially comply with a 

fundamental term or condition of the MAP APA.

78.  When  a  MAP  APA  is  revoked,  the  revocation  is  retroactive  to  the 
first day of the first tax year or accounting period for which the MAP APA 
was effective and the MAP APA will no longer have any further force and 
effect on the affected taxpayer(s) and the other tax administration. Because 
of the serious effect of this action, the tax administration proposing to revoke 
a MAP APA should only do so after a careful and thorough evaluation of the 
relevant facts and should inform and consult with the affected taxpayer(s) and 
other tax administration(s) on a timely basis.

E.3.2. Cancelling a MAP APA

79. 
A tax administration may cancel a MAP APA (either unilaterally or 
by mutual agreement) if it is established that one of the following situations 
has arisen:

a)  There  was  a  misrepresentation,  mistake  or  omission  that  was 
not attributable to the neglect, carelessness, or wilful default of 
a taxpayer when filing the MAP APA request and submission, 
the  annual  reports,  or  other  supporting  documentation  or  in 
supplying any related information; or

b)  The  participating  taxpayer(s)  failed  to  materially  comply  with 

any term or condition of the MAP APA; or

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS – 541

c)  There  was  a  material  breach  of  one  or  more  of  the  critical 

assumptions; or

d)  There  was  a  change  in  tax  law,  including  a  treaty  provision 
materially  relevant  to  the  MAP  APA;  and  it  has  not  proved 
possible to revise the agreement (see paragraphs 80-82 below) to 
take account of the changed circumstances.

80.  When  a  MAP  APA  is  cancelled  the  date  of  cancellation  will  be 
determined by the nature of the event that led to the cancellation. This may 
be  a  specific  date,  for  example  if  the  event  giving  rise  to  the  cancellation 
was a material change in tax law (although the MAP APA may still provide 
for there to be a period of transition between the date of change in the law 
and the cancellation date). In other cases, the cancellation will be effective 
for a particular tax year or accounting period, for example where there was 
a  material  change  in  one  of  the  critical  assumptions  which  could  not  be 
ascribed to a particular date in that tax year or accounting period. The MAP 
APA will no longer have any further force on the affected taxpayer(s) and the 
other tax administration from the date of cancellation.

81. 
The tax administration may waive cancellation if the taxpayer can 
show reasonable cause, to the satisfaction of the tax administration, and if the 
taxpayer agrees to make any adjustment proposed by the tax administration 
to  correct  the  misrepresentation,  mistake,  omission  or  non-compliance, 
or  take  into  account  the  changes  in  critical  assumptions,  tax  law  or  treaty 
provision relevant to the APA. Such action may give rise to the revision of 
the MAP APA (see below).

82. 
The tax administration proposing the cancellation should inform and 
consult with the affected taxpayer(s) and the other tax administration(s) in a 
timely manner. This consultation should include an e