
10

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD – 477

b) Determine routine profit on manufacturing by A and B, and 
calculate total residual profit

55. 
It is established, for both jurisdictions, that third-party comparable 
manufacturers  without  unique  and  valuable  intangibles  earn  a  return  on 
manufacturing costs (excluding purchases) of 10% (ratio of net profit to the 
direct and indirect costs of manufacturing).1 A’s manufacturing costs are 15, 
and so the return on costs would attribute to A a manufacturing profit of 1.5. 
B’s equivalent costs are 20, and so the return on costs would attribute to B 
a manufacturing profit of 2.0. The residual profit is therefore 6.5, arrived at 
by deducting from the relevant net profit of 10 the combined manufacturing 
profit of 3.5.

c) Allocate residual profit

The  initial  allocation  of  profit  (1.5  to  A  and  2.0  to  B)  rewards  the 
56. 
manufacturing  functions  of  A  and  B,  but  does  not  recognise  the  value  of 
their  respective  unique  and  valuable  contributions  that  have  resulted  in  a 
technologically  advanced  product.  Since  in  this  case  it  is  determined  that 
the relative share of total R&D costs incurred by A and B in relation to the 
product is a reliable proxy for the value of their respective unique and valuable 
contributions,  the  residual  can  be  split  between  A  and  B  on  that  basis.  The 
residual is 6.5 which may be allocated 15/25 to A and 10/25 to B, resulting in a 
share of 3.9 and 2.6 respectively, as below:

A’s share 6.5 × 15/25= 3.9

B’s share 6.5 × 10/25= 2.6

d) Recalculate profits

57. 

A’s net profits would thus become 1.5 + 3.9 = 5.4.

B’s net profits would thus become 2.0 + 2.6 = 4.6.

1. 

This 10% return does not technically correspond to a cost plus mark-up in its 
strictest  sense  because  it  yields  net  profit  rather  than  gross  profit.  But  neither 
does  the  10%  return  correspond  to  a  TNMM  margin  in  its  strictest  sense, 
since  the  cost  base  does  not  include  operating  expenses.  The  net  return  on 
manufacturing  costs  is  being  used  as  a  convenient  and  practical  first  stage  of 
the profit split method, because it simplifies the determination of the amount of 
residual net profit attributable to the unique and valuable intangibles contributed 
by A and B.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

478 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD

The revised P & L for tax purposes would appear as:

Sales

Less:
Purchases

Manufacturing costs 

Gross profit

Less: 

R& D

Operating expenses
Net profit

A

B

55.4

(10)

(15)

30.4

(25)

5.4

100

(55.4)

(20)

24.6

(20)

4.6

10

10

15

10

Note:  The  example  is  intended  to  exemplify  in  a  simple  manner  the  mechanisms  of  a 
residual  profit  split  and  should  not  be  interpreted  as  providing  general  guidance  as  to 
how  the  arm’s  length  principle  should  apply  in  identifying  arm’s  length  comparables 
and determining an appropriate split. It is important that the principles that it seeks to 
illustrate are applied in each case taking into account the specific facts and circumstances 
of the case. In particular, it should be noted that the allocation of the residual profit may 
need considerable refinement in practice in order to identify and quantify the appropriate 
basis  for  the  split.  Where  R&D  expenditure  is  used,  differences  in  the  types  of  R&D 
conducted may need to be taken into account, e.g. because different types of R&D may 
have different levels of risk associated with them, which would lead to different levels of 
expected returns at arm’s length. Relative levels of current R&D expenditure also may 
not adequately reflect the contribution to the earning of current profits that is attributable 
to intangible property developed or acquired in the past. See Section C.5.3.2 of Chapter II 
of these Guidelines.

Example 12

Company  A,  resident  in  Country  A,  Company  B,  resident  in 
58. 
Country B, and Company C, resident in Country C, are members of an MNE 
group.  Companies  A  and  B  undertake  the  design  and  manufacturing  of 
products and their activities in this regard are highly integrated. Additionally, 
Company A and Company B are responsible for the marketing and distribution 
of  the  products  to  unrelated  customers  in  Country  A  and  in  Country  B, 
respectively.  Company  C  is  responsible  for  the  benchmarkable  marketing 
and distribution of products purchased from Company A and Company B to 
unrelated customers in Country C.

Company  A  and  Company  B  enter  into  an  agreement  to  buy  and 
59. 
sell pieces, moulds and components to manufacture the different models of 
the  products.  These  transactions  may  also  relate  to  semi-finished  products 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHA