ol of Premiere, sells the patents to 
an independent enterprise at a price reflecting appreciation in the value of the 
patents during the period that Company S was the legal owner. The functions 
of  Company  S  throughout  the  period  it  was  the  legal  owner  of  the  patents 
were  limited  to  performing  the  patent  registration  functions  described  in 
Examples 1 and 2.

9. 
Under these circumstances, the income of Company S should be the 
same as in Example 2. It should be compensated for the registration functions 
it performs, but should not otherwise share in the returns derived from the 
exploitation  of  the  intangibles,  including  the  returns  generated  from  the 
disposition of the intangibles.

Example 4

10. 
The facts related to the development of the patents are the same as 
described in Example 3. In contrast to Example 1, Company S in this example 
has employees capable of making, and who actually make, the decision to 
take on the patent portfolio. All decisions relating to the licensing programme 
were taken by Company S employees, all negotiations with licensees were 
undertaken by Company S employees, and Company S employees monitored 
compliance of independent licensees with the terms of the licenses. It should 
be assumed for purposes of this example that the price paid by Company S in 
exchange for the patents was an arm’s length price that reflected the parties’ 
respective assessments of the future licensing programme and the anticipated 
returns to be derived from exploitation of the patents as of the time of their 
assignment to Company S. For the purposes of this example, it is assumed 
that the approach for hard-to-value intangibles in Section D.4 does not apply.

11. 
Following  the  assignments,  Company  S  licensed  the  patents  to 
independent enterprises for a few years. Thereafter the value of the patents 
increases significantly because of external circumstances unforeseen at the 
time  the  patents  were  assigned  to  Company  S.  Company  S  then  sells  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

604 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES

patents to an unrelated purchaser at a price exceeding the price initially paid 
by Company S to Premiere for the patents. Company S employees make all 
decisions regarding the sale of the patents, negotiate the terms of the sale, and 
in all respects manage and control the disposition of the patents.

12. 
Under  these  circumstances,  Company  S  is  entitled  to  retain  the 
proceeds of the sale, including amounts attributable to the appreciation in the 
value of the patents resulting from the unanticipated external circumstances.

Example 5

13. 
The  facts  are  the  same  as  in  Example  4  except  that  instead  of 
appreciating,  the  value  of  the  patents  decreases  during  the  time  they  are 
owned  by  Company  S  as  a  result  of  unanticipated  external  circumstances. 
Under these circumstances, Company S is entitled to retain the proceeds of 
the sale, meaning that it will suffer the loss.

Example 6

14. 
In  year  1,  a  multinational  group  comprised  of  Company  A  (a 
Country A corporation) and Company B (a Country B corporation) decides 
to develop an intangible, which is anticipated to be highly profitable based 
on  Company  B’s  existing  intangibles,  its  track  record  and  its  experienced 
research  and  development  staff.  The  intangible  is  expected  to  take  five 
years  to  develop  before  possible  commercial  exploitation.  If  successfully 
developed,  the  intangible  is  anticipated  to  have  value  for  ten  years  after 
initial exploitation. Under the development agreement between Company A 
and Company B, Company B will perform and control all activities related 
to the development, enhancement, maintenance, protection and exploitation 
of the intangible. Company A will provide all funding associated with the 
development  of  the  intangible  (the  development  costs  are  anticipated  to  be 
USD 100 million per year for five years), and will become the legal owner 
of  the  intangible.  Once  developed,  the  intangible  is  anticipated  to  result 
in  profits  of  USD  550  million  per  year  (years  6  to  15).  Company  B  will 
license  the  intangible  from  Company  A  and  make  contingent  payments 
to  Company  A  for  the  right  to  use  the  intangible,  based  on  returns  of 
purportedly comparable licensees. After the projected contingent payments, 
Company B will be left with an anticipated return of USD 200 million per 
year from selling products based on the intangible.

15. 
A  functional  analysis  by  the  Country  B  tax  administration  of  the 
arrangement  assesses  the  functions  performed,  assets  used  and  contributed, 
and risks assumed by Company A and by Company B. The analysis through 
which the actual transaction is delineated concludes that although Company A 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OEC