year and across entities.

Tangible Assets other than Cash and Cash Equivalents

In  the  eleventh  column  of  the  template,  the  Reporting  MNE  should  report  the  sum 
of  the  net  book  values  of  tangible  assets  of  all  the  Constituent  Entities  resident  for  tax 
purposes  in  the  relevant  tax  jurisdiction.  with  regard  to  permanent  establishments, 
assets  should  be  reported  by  reference  to  the  tax  jurisdiction  in  which  the  permanent 
establishment  is  situated.  Tangible  assets  for  this  purpose  do  not  include  cash  or  cash 
equivalents, intangibles, or financial assets.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

ANNEx III TO ChAPTER v. TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION – COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORT – 35

List of all the Constituent Entities of the MNE group included in each aggregation 
per tax jurisdiction (Table 2)

Constituent Entities Resident in the Tax Jurisdiction

The Reporting MNE should list, on a tax jurisdiction-by-tax jurisdiction basis and by 
legal entity name, all the Constituent Entities of the MNE group which are resident for 
tax  purposes  in  the  relevant  tax  jurisdiction.  As  stated  above  with  regard  to  permanent 
establishments,  however,  the  permanent  establishment  should  be  listed  by  reference  to 
the  tax  jurisdiction  in  which  it  is  situated.  The  legal  entity  of  which  it  is  a  permanent 
establishment should be noted (e.g. xYZ Corp – Tax Jurisdiction A PE).

Tax Jurisdiction of Organisation or Incorporation if Different from Tax 
Jurisdiction of Residence

The Reporting MNE should report the name of the tax jurisdiction under whose laws 
the Constituent Entity of the MNE is organised or incorporated if it is different from the 
tax jurisdiction of residence.

Main Business Activity(ies)

The  Reporting  MNE  should  determine  the  nature  of  the  main  business  activity(ies) 
carried out by the Constituent Entity in the relevant tax jurisdiction, by ticking one or more 
of the appropriate boxes.

Business Activities

Research and Development

Holding or Managing Intellectual Property

Purchasing or Procurement

Manufacturing or Production

Sales, Marketing or Distribution

Administrative, Management or Support Services

Provision of Services to Unrelated Parties

Internal Group Finance

Regulated Financial Services

Insurance

Holding Shares or Other Equity Instruments

Dormant

Other 1

1. Please specify the nature of the activity of the Constituent Entity in the “Additional 
Information” section.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

ANNEx Iv TO ChAPTER v. COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 37

Annex IV to Chapter V 

Country-by-Country Reporting Implementation Package

Introduction

In order to facilitate a consistent and swift implementation of the Country-by-Country 
Reporting developed under Action 13 of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Action Plan 
(BEPS  Action  Plan,  OECD,  2013),  a  Country-by-Country  Reporting  Implementation 
Package has been agreed by countries participating in the OECD/G20 BEPS Project. This 
implementation package consists of (i) model legislation which could be used by countries 
to  require  the  ultimate  parent  entity  of  an  MNE  group  to  file  the  Country-by-Country 
Report in its jurisdiction of residence including backup filing requirements and (ii) three 
model Competent Authority Agreements that are to be used to facilitate implementation 
of the exchange of Country-by-Country Reports, respectively based on the 1) Convention 
on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, 2) bilateral tax conventions and 3) 
Tax Information Exchange Agreements (TIEAs). It is recognised that developing countries 
may require support for the effective implementation of Country-by-Country Reporting.

Model legislation

The model legislation contained in the Country-by-Country Reporting Implementation 
Package  takes  into  account  neither  the  constitutional  law  and  legal  system,  nor  the 
structure and wording of the tax legislation of any particular jurisdiction. Jurisdictions will 
be able to adapt this model legislation to their own legal systems, where changes to current 
legislation are required.

Competent Authority Agreements

The  Convention  on  Mutual  Administrative  Assistance  in  Tax  Matters  (the 
“Convention’), by virtue of its Article 6, requires the Competent Authorities of the Parties 
to the Convention to mutually agree on the scope of the automatic exchange of information 
and the procedure to be complied with. In the context of the Common Reporting Standard, 
this requirement has been translated into a Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement, 
which  defines  the  scope,  timing,  procedures  and  safeguards  according  to  which  the 
automatic exchange should take place.

As  the  implementation  of  the  automatic  exchange  of  infor