parable  uncontrolled  transactions. 
The transactional profit split method may also be appropriate for transfers 
of  partially  developed  intangibles.  Example  5  in  Annex  II  to  Chapter  II 
provides an illustration. See paragraphs 6.150 to 6.151. Where the intangibles 
transferred  are  hard-to-value  intangibles,  the  provisions  of  Section  D.4  of 
Chapter VI should be considered.

C.2.2.2. Highly integrated business operations

2.133.  Although most MNE groups are integrated to some extent, a particularly 
high degree of integration in certain business operations is an indicator for 
the  consideration  of  the  transactional  profit  split  method.  A  high  degree 
of  integration  means  that  the  way  in  which  one  party  to  the  transaction 
performs  functions,  uses  assets  and  assumes  risks  is  interlinked  with,  and 
cannot  reliably  be  evaluated  in  isolation  from,  the  way  in  which  another 
party to the transaction performs functions, uses assets and assumes risks. 
In contrast, many instances of integration within an MNE result in situations 
in which the contribution of at least one party to the transaction can in fact 
be reliably evaluated by reference to comparable uncontrolled transactions. 
For example, where complementary but discrete activities are undertaken by 
the entities, it may be the case that it is possible to find reliable comparables 
since the functions, assets and risks involved in each discrete stage may be 
comparable to those in uncontrolled arrangements. This needs to be borne in 
mind in considering which transfer pricing method is the most appropriate in 
a particular case. Examples 6, 7 and 8 in Annex II to Chapter II illustrate the 
principles of this section.

2.134.  In some cases the parties may perform functions jointly, use assets 
jointly and/or share assumption of risks to such an extent that it is impossible 
to evaluate their respective contributions in isolation from those of others. 
As  an  example,  the  transactional  profit  split  method  can  be  applied  to  the 
global  trading  of  financial  instruments  by  associated  enterprises.  See  in 
Part III, Section C of the Report on the Attribution of Profits to Permanent 
Establishments.2

2. 

See Report on the Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments (OECD, 
2010).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

134 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

2.135.  Another example may be where the integration between the parties 
takes the form of a high degree of inter-dependency. For instance, profit split 
approaches  may  be  used  by  independent  enterprises  engaged  in  long-term 
arrangements where each party has made a significant contribution (e.g. of 
an  asset)  whose  value  depends  on  the  counterparty  to  the  arrangement.  In 
these  kinds  of  cases,  where  each  party  makes  such  a  contribution,  and  is 
dependent  on  the  other  party  (or  where  the  value  of  the  contribution(s)  of 
one party depends to a significant degree on the contribution(s) of the other 
party), some form of flexible pricing that takes into account, and varies with, 
the outcome of the risks assumed by each party arising from its dependence 
on the other party may be observed.

2.136.  Where  business  operations  are  highly  integrated,  the  extent  to 
which the parties share the assumption of the same economically significant 
risks  or  separately  assume  closely  related  economically  significant  risks 
will  be  relevant  to  the  determination  of  the  most  appropriate  method  and, 
if  a  transactional  profit  split  is  considered  the  most  appropriate  method, 
how it should be applied; in particular whether a split of actual profits or of 
anticipated profits should be used. See Section C.4.1.

2.137.  Where a party contributes to the control of economically significant 
risk, but that risk is assumed by the other party to the transaction, this may, in 
some cases, demonstrate that it is appropriate for the first party to share in the 
potential upside and downside associated with that risk, commensurate with 
its contribution to control. See paragraph 1.105. However, the mere fact that 
an entity performs control functions in relation to a risk will not necessarily 
lead to the conclusion that the transactional profit split is the most appropriate 
method in the case.

2.138.  Where the contributions are highly inter-related or inter-dependent 
upon each other, the evaluation of the respective contributions of the parties 
may need to be done holistically. That is, a high degree of integration may 
also  affect  whether  contributions  by  the  enterprises  are  considered  to  be 
unique and valuable. For instance, a unique contribution by one party may 
have  a  significantly  greater  value  when  considered  in  combination  with 
the particular unique contribution of the other  party.  Paragraphs  6.93-6.94 
discuss  this  i