e transactions are 
between enterprises that happen to be associated.

B.2.2.  Identifying actual arrangements for charging for intra-group 

services

7.20.  To  identify  the  amount,  if  any,  that  has  actually  been  charged  for 
services,  a  tax  administration  will  need  to  identify  what  arrangements,  if 
any,  have  actually  been  put  in  place  between  the  associated  enterprises  to 
facilitate charges being made for the provision of services between them.

B.2.2.1. Direct-charge methods

7.21. 
In certain cases, the arrangements made for charging for intra-group 
services  can  be  readily  identified.  These  cases  are  where  the  MNE  group 
uses a direct-charge method, i.e. where the associated enterprises are charged 
for specific services. In general, the direct-charge method is of great practical 
convenience to tax administrations because it allows the service performed 
and the basis for the payment to be clearly identified. Thus, the direct-charge 
method facilitates the determination of whether the charge is consistent with 
the arm’s length principle.

7.22.  An MNE group may be able to adopt direct charging arrangements, 
particularly where services similar to those rendered to associated enterprises 
are  also  rendered  to  independent  parties.  If  specific  services  are  provided 
not  only  to  associated  enterprises  but  also  to  independent  enterprises  in 
a  comparable  manner  and  as  a  significant  part  of  its  business,  it  could  be 
presumed that the MNE has the ability to demonstrate a separate basis for 
the charge (e.g. by recording the work done, the fee basis, or costs expended 
in fulfilling its third party contracts). As a result, MNEs in such a case are 
encouraged to adopt the direct-charge method in relation to their transactions 
with associated enterprises. It is accepted, however, that this approach may 
not always be appropriate if, for example, the services to independent parties 
are merely occasional or marginal.

B.2.2.2. Indirect-charge methods

7.23.  A  direct-charge  method  for  charging  for  intra-group  services  can 
be  difficult  to  apply  in  practice.  Consequently,  some  MNE  groups  have 
developed  other  methods  for  charging  for  services  provided  by  parent 
companies or group service centres. In such cases, MNE groups may find they 
have few alternatives but to use cost allocation and apportionment methods 
which often necessitate some degree of estimation or approximation, as a basis 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES – 321

for calculating an arm’s length charge following the principles in Section B.2.3 
below. Such methods are generally referred to as indirect-charge methods and 
should  be  allowable  provided  sufficient  regard  has  been  given  to  the  value 
of the services to recipients and the extent to which comparable services are 
provided  between  independent  enterprises.  These  methods  of  calculating 
charges would generally not be acceptable where specific services that form 
a main business activity of the enterprise are provided not only to associated 
enterprises  but  also  to  independent  parties.  While  every  attempt  should 
be  made  to  charge  fairly  for  the  service  provided,  any  charging  has  to  be 
supported by an identifiable and reasonably foreseeable benefit. Any indirect-
charge method should be sensitive to the commercial features of the individual 
case (e.g. the allocation key makes sense under the circumstances), contain 
safeguards against manipulation and follow sound accounting principles, and 
be capable of producing charges or allocations of costs that are commensurate 
with the actual or reasonably expected benefits to the recipient of the service.

7.24. 
In  some  cases,  an  indirect-charge  method  may  be  necessary  due  to 
the nature of the service being provided. One example is where the proportion 
of the value of the services rendered to the various relevant entities cannot be 
quantified  except  on  an  approximate  or  estimated  basis.  This  problem  may 
occur, for example, where sales promotion activities carried on centrally (e.g. at 
international  fairs,  in  the  international  press,  or  through  other  centralised 
advertising  campaigns)  may  affect  the  quantity  of  goods  manufactured  or 
sold by a number of affiliates. Another case is where a separate recording and 
analysis of the relevant services for each beneficiary would involve a burden 
of administrative work that would be disproportionately heavy in relation to 
the  activities  themselves.  In  such  cases,  the  charge  could  be  determined  by 
reference  to  an  allocation  among  all  potential  beneficiaries  of  the  costs  that 
cannot be allocated directly, i.e. costs that cannot be specifically assigned to 
the  actual  beneficiaries  of  the  various  services.  To  satisfy  the  arm’s  length