extended  by  a  further  period  not  exceeding  thirty  days.

1.3.13  Extent  of  Documentation:  If  one  is  to  have  a  cursory  look 
at  the  Documentation  requirements  prescribed  under  the  Indian 
Transfer  Pricing  Regulations,  one  could  see  that  the  documents/
information required to be maintained by the taxpayer are detailed 
and  same  will  help  the  taxpayer  in  supporting  its  case  that  the 
international transactions are at arm’s length. Further, maintaining 
adequate  documentation  also  acts  as  a  safeguard  against  rigorous 
penalty provisions. The taxpayer while maintaining documentation, 
and the tax authorities while requiring the production thereof, are 
therefore required to adopt a pragmatic approach. On more than one 
occasion the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) has underscored 
the  need  to  adopt  a  pragmatic  approach  in  this  regard.  The  ITAT 
in  its  ruling  in  case  of  Cargill  India  (P.)  Ltd.6  has  stated  that  only 
documentation which has a bearing on the international transaction 
are required to be maintained and taxpayer cannot be penalized for 
not maintaining all the documents stated in Rule 10D of the Rules, 
if  they  are  not  relevant  for  determining  the  arm’s  length  price  of 
the  international  transactions  undertaken  by  the  taxpayer.

1.3.14  The justification of arm’s length standard includes in its fold 
a  multitude  of  factors.  Even  though  one  may  have  considered  the 
aforementioned factors, documenting the same assumes prominence 
from  a  justification  as  well  as  transfer  pricing  audit  perspective. 
Transfer Pricing Regulations around the world have tried to address 
the issue of justification of the transfer pricing by requiring detailed 
documentation  and  India  is  no  exception  to  it. 

1.3.15  The OECD Guidelines heavily stresses on the importance of 
maintaining documentation to support the determined ALP, and that 

6. 

300  ITR  (AT)  223.

I-104

Transfer Pricing – A CompendiumTransfer Pricing Documentation and its Critical Importance in Practice

tax administrations should be able to verify, from such documentation 
maintained, the arm’s length nature of the international transaction 
in question. To summarize, the following principles are advocated 
by  the  OECD  Guidelines  in  connection  with  documentation  to  be 
maintained  by  the  taxpayer:

l  Documentation  should  be  maintained  and  be  made 
available  by  the  taxpayer  in  order  to  establish  the  arm’s 
length  nature  of  the  international  transaction;

l  Tax  administrations  must  be  rational  and  reasonable  in 
their  approach  while  advocating  upon  the  extensiveness 
of the documentation that should be maintained to justify 
the  arm’s  length  nature  of  the  international  transaction;

l  Documentation should be in line with the existing business 
management  principles  followed  by  the  taxpayer  while 
evaluating  a  certain  business  decision;  and

l  The  requirement  to  maintain  documentation  should  not 
result  in  high  cost  and  an  administrative  burden  for  the 
taxpayer,  especially  in  situations  where  the  requirement 
results  in  preparation  of  documentation  that  would  not 
have  otherwise  been  prepared  by  the  taxpayer.

1.3.16  The Documentation requirements prescribed under the Indian 
Transfer Pricing Regulations touch upon a multitude of factors and 
issues. This chapter endeavours to touch upon the most basic as well 
as  the  most  intricate  requirements/issues  vis-à-vis  documentation 
requirements  under  the  Regulations  and  its  practical  importance. 
Further, at the end of the Chapter, sample Documentation formats 
relevant  for  various  business  models  are  also  provided,  which 
could  provide  a  high  level  guidance  for  the  manner  in  which  the 
Documentation  could  be  maintained.

1.4 

Approach  to  Documentation

Although the Regulations do not specify any particular format 
in which the Documentation is to be maintained by the taxpayers, 
over  the  years,  since  the  implementation  of  the  Regulations  in 
India, TPOs have favoured an organized and systematic approach 
to  maintenance  of  Documentation.  The  most  pragmatic  approach 
to Documentation is to collate it in the form of a Report that starts 

I-105

 
 
 
 
with  the  most  basic  and  generic  information,  building  a  context 
for the specific international transaction of the taxpayer during the 
year under review and then delving into the more specific aspects 
such  as  functional  and  risk  analysis,  the  determination  of  the 
arm’s length price(s) and concluding finally with the comparability 
analysis  between  the  arm’s  length  prices  so  determined  with  the 
transfer prices of the taxpayer. The general flow of transfer pricing 
documentation  has  been  depicted  as  below:

Concl

usion

Econ
Ana

nomic 
lysis

Fun
Ana

n