x administrations in conducting such risk assessments.

5.11. 
Proper assessment of transfer pricing risk by the tax administration 
requires  access  to  sufficient,  relevant  and  reliable  information  at  an  early 
stage. While there are many sources of relevant information, transfer pricing 
documentation is one critical source of such information.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

230 – CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION

5.12.  There  is  a  variety  of  tools  and  sources  of  information  used  for 
identifying and evaluating transfer pricing risks of taxpayers and transactions, 
including  transfer  pricing  forms  (to  be  filed  with  the  annual  tax  return), 
transfer  pricing  mandatory  questionnaires  focusing  on  particular  areas  of 
risk,  general  transfer  pricing  documentation  requirements  identifying  the 
supporting  evidence  necessary  to  demonstrate  the  taxpayer’s  compliance 
with  the  arm’s  length  principle,  and  co-operative  discussions  between  tax 
administrations and taxpayers. Each of the tools and sources of information 
appears to respond to the same fundamental observation: there is a need for 
the tax administration to have ready access to relevant information at an early 
stage  to  enable  an  accurate  and  informed  transfer  pricing  risk  assessment. 
Assuring that a high quality transfer pricing risk assessment can be carried 
out efficiently and with the right kinds of reliable information should be one 
important consideration in designing transfer pricing documentation rules.

B.3. Transfer pricing audit
5.13.  A  third  objective  for  transfer  pricing  documentation  is  to  provide 
tax  administrations  with  useful  information  to  employ  in  conducting  a 
thorough transfer pricing audit. Transfer pricing audit cases tend to be fact-
intensive.  They  often  involve  difficult  evaluations  of  the  comparability  of 
several  transactions  and  markets.  They  can  require  detailed  consideration 
of  financial,  factual  and  other  industry  information.  The  availability  of 
adequate  information  from  a  variety  of  sources  during  the  audit  is  critical 
to  facilitating  a  tax  administration’s  orderly  examination  of  the  taxpayer’s 
controlled  transactions  with  associated  enterprises  and  enforcement  of  the 
applicable transfer pricing rules.
5.14. 
In situations where a proper transfer pricing risk assessment suggests 
that  a  thorough  transfer  pricing  audit  is  warranted  with  regard  to  one  or 
more  issues,  it  is  clearly  the  case  that  the  tax  administration  must  have  the 
ability  to  obtain,  within  a  reasonable  period,  all  of  the  relevant  documents 
and  information  in  the  taxpayer’s  possession.  This  includes  information 
regarding the taxpayer’s operations and functions, relevant information on the 
operations, functions and financial results of associated enterprises with which 
the  taxpayer  has  entered  into  controlled  transactions,  information  regarding 
potential  comparables,  including  internal  comparables,  and  documents 
regarding  the  operations  and  financial  results  of  potentially  comparable 
uncontrolled transactions and unrelated parties. To the extent such information 
is  included  in  the  transfer  pricing  documentation,  special  information  and 
document  production  procedures  can  potentially  be  avoided.  It  must  be 
recognised, however, that it would be unduly burdensome and inefficient for 
transfer pricing documentation to attempt to anticipate all of the information 
that  might  possibly  be  required  for  a  full  audit.  Accordingly,  situations  will 
inevitably  arise  when  tax  administrations  wish  to  obtain  information  not 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION – 231

included  in  the  documentation  package.  Thus,  a  tax  administration’s  access 
to  information  should  not  be  limited  to,  or  by,  the  documentation  package 
relied on in a transfer pricing risk assessment. Where a jurisdiction requires 
particular information to be retained for transfer pricing audit purposes, such 
requirements should balance the tax administration’s need for information and 
the compliance burdens on taxpayers.
It may often be the case that the documents and other information 
5.15. 
required  for  a  transfer  pricing  audit  will  be  in  the  possession  of  members 
of  the  MNE  group  other  than  the  local  affiliate  under  examination.  Often 
the necessary documents will be located outside the jurisdiction whose tax 
administration is conducting the audit. It is therefore important that the tax 
administration is able to obtain directly or through information sharing, such 
as exchange of information mechanisms, information that extends beyond the 
jurisdiction’s borders.

C. A three-tiered approach to transfer pricing documentation

5.16. 
In order to achie