 cost plus method may over-emphasise 
historical  costs.  Some  costs,  for  example  costs  of  materials,  labour,  and 
transport will vary over a period and in such a case it may be appropriate to 
average the costs over the period. Averaging also may be appropriate across 
product groups or over a particular line of production. Further, averaging may 
be appropriate with respect to the costs of fixed assets where the production 
or  processing  of  different  products  is  carried  on  simultaneously  and  the 
volume of activity fluctuates. Costs such as replacement costs and marginal 
costs also may need to be considered where these can be measured and they 
result in a more accurate estimate of the appropriate profit.

2.56.  The costs that may be considered in applying the cost plus method are 
limited to those of the supplier of goods or services. This limitation may raise 
a problem of how to allocate some costs between suppliers and purchasers. 
There is a possibility that some costs will be borne by the purchaser in order 
to diminish the supplier’s cost base on which the mark up will be calculated. 
In  practice,  this  may  be  achieved  by  not  allocating  to  the  supplier  an 
appropriate share of overheads and other costs borne by the purchaser (often 
the parent company) for the benefit of the supplier (often a subsidiary). The 
allocation should be undertaken based on an analysis of functions performed 
(taking into account assets used and risks assumed) by the respective parties 
as provided in Chapter I. A related problem is how overhead costs should be 
apportioned, whether by reference to turnover, number or cost of employees, 
or  some  other  criterion.  The  issue  of  cost  allocation  is  also  discussed  in 
Chapter VIII on cost contribution arrangements.

In  some  cases,  there  may  be  a  basis  for  using  only  variable  or 
2.57. 
incremental  (e.g.  marginal)  costs,  because  the  transactions  represent  a 
disposal of marginal production. Such a claim could be justified if the goods 
could not be sold at a higher price in the relevant foreign market (see also the 
discussion of market penetration in Chapter I). Factors that could be taken 
into account in evaluating such a claim include information on whether the 
taxpayer has any other sales of the same or similar products in that particular 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 111

foreign market, the percentage of the taxpayers’ production (in both volume 
and value terms) that the claimed “marginal production” represents, the term 
of the arrangement, and details of the marketing analysis that was undertaken 
by the taxpayer or MNE group which led to the conclusion that the goods 
could not be sold at a higher price in that foreign market.

2.58.  No general rule can be set out that deals with all cases. The various 
methods for determining costs should be consistent as between the controlled 
and uncontrolled transactions and consistent over time in relation to particular 
enterprises. For example, in determining the appropriate cost plus mark up, 
it may be necessary to take into account whether products can be supplied by 
various sources at widely differing costs. Associated enterprises may choose 
to calculate their cost plus basis on a standardised basis. An independent party 
probably would not accept to pay a higher price resulting from the inefficiency 
of the other party. On the other hand, if the other party is more efficient than 
can be expected under normal circumstances, this other party should benefit 
from that advantage. The associated enterprise may agree in advance which 
costs would be acceptable as a basis for the cost plus method.

D.2.  Examples of the application of the cost plus method
2.59.  A is a domestic manufacturer of timing mechanisms for mass-market 
clocks. A sells this product to its foreign subsidiary B. A earns a 5% gross 
profit mark up with respect to its manufacturing operation. X, y, and Z are 
independent domestic manufacturers of timing mechanisms for mass-market 
watches. X, y, and Z sell to independent foreign purchasers. X, y, and Z earn 
gross  profit  mark  ups  with  respect  to  their  manufacturing  operations  that 
range from 3% to 5%. A accounts for supervisory, general, and administrative 
costs  as  operating  expenses,  and  thus  these  costs  are  not  reflected  in  cost 
of  goods  sold.  The  gross  profit  mark  ups  of  X,  y,  and  Z,  however,  reflect 
supervisory, general, and administrative costs as part of costs of goods sold. 
Therefore,  the  gross  profit  mark  ups  of  X,  y,  and  Z  must  be  adjusted  to 
provide accounting consistency.
2.60.  Company C in Country D is a 100% subsidiary of company E, located 
in Country F. In comparison with Country F, wages are very low in Country D. 
At  the  expense  and  risk  of  company  E,  television  sets  are  assembled  by 
company  C.  Al