evant enterprise would be required to prepare if it was listed on a public securities exchange. In applying 
the deemed listing provision, it is irrelevant whether or not a particular type of entity is in fact able to be 
listed, taking into account, among other things, the jurisdiction’s company law and/or regulations governing 
the relevant public securities exchange.  

For  instance,  some  jurisdictions  differentiate  between  public  entities  and  non-public  entities  (or  private 
entities) in determining whether Consolidated Financial Statements are required to be prepared (e.g. the 
United States and Canada). In this case, the deemed listing provision would be relevant in determining the 
Constituent Entities in an MNE Group where the UPE is a non-public entity. The term “public entities” refers 
to entities which have instruments listed on a public securities exchange and the expression “non-public 
entities”  refers  to  entities  which  have  no  instruments  traded  on  a  public  securities  exchange.  The  term 
“public entity” does not refer to an entity held by public sector bodies. 

In accordance with paragraph  55 of  the Action 13 Report,  neither the deemed  listing  provision  nor this 
guidance should be interpreted as giving rise to any exemption from the obligation to file the CbC report 
other than as set out in paragraph 52 of the Action 13 Report and Article 1.3 of the Model Legislation. 

6.2 How does the “deemed listing provision” set out in Article 1, paragraph 6 of the CbC 
reporting model legislation operate where the parent entity of an MNE Group is tax 
resident in a jurisdiction that does not have a securities exchange?  

Paragraph 51 of the BEPS Action 13 report requires that all MNE groups be required to file a CbC report, 
subject to the consolidated group revenue threshold in paragraph 52. The model legislation contained in 
the CbC Reporting Implementation Package includes an example of how this could be done. 

Article 1, paragraph 6 of the model legislation provides that the UPE of an MNE is an entity that is required 
to prepare consolidated financial statements, or would be required to do so if its equity instruments were 
traded on a securities exchange in its jurisdiction of tax residence. A question has arisen as to how this 
test is to be applied or adapted in cases where there is no securities exchange in the jurisdiction where an 
entity is tax resident. 

In these cases, an entity will be the UPE of an MNE group if it would be required to prepare consolidated 
financial  statements  if  its  equity  instruments  were  traded  on  a  securities  exchange  upon  which  equity 
instruments  of  entities  tax  resident  in  the  same  jurisdiction  are  commonly  traded.  To  provide  greater 
certainty  for  MNEs  and  for  other  jurisdictions,  jurisdictions  that  do  not  have  a  securities  exchange  are 
encouraged  to  specify  one  or  more  jurisdictions  with  a  securities  exchange  that  would  be  considered 
acceptable for these purposes. 

If the equity instruments of an entity that would be the UPE of an MNE group under Article 1, paragraph 6 
are not traded on a public securities exchange, question 3.1 in part III of this guidance will also apply, to 
identify the applicable accounting standards that should be used to determine membership of the MNE 
group. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
22 |   

Reporting permanent establishment information (October 2022) 

7.1 In completing Table 2, how should Constituent Entities that are permanent 
establishments be described? 

As described in the Template for CbC report – Specific Instructions, a Constituent Entity that is a permanent 
establishment should be listed in Table 2 by reference to the tax jurisdiction in which it is situated and the 
legal  entity  of  which  it  is  a  permanent  establishment  should  be  noted.  For  example,  if  an  MNE  group 
includes  a  Constituent  Entity,  XYZ  Corp,  which  is  resident  in  Tax  jurisdiction  A  and  has  a  permanent 
establishment in Tax jurisdiction B, the following descriptions should be used in Table 2: 

Tax Jurisdiction 

Constituent Entities Resident in the Tax Jurisdiction 

Tax jurisdiction A 

Tax jurisdiction B 

XYZ Corp 

XYZ Corp – Tax jurisdiction A PE 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
  | 23 

4 Issues relating to the filing 

obligation for the CbC report 

Impact of currency fluctuations on the agreed EUR 750 million filing threshold 
(June 2016) 

1.1 If Country A is using a domestic currency equivalent of EUR 750 million for its filing 
threshold, Country B is using EUR 750 million for its filing threshold, and as a result of 
currency fluctuations Country A's threshold is in excess of EUR 750 million, can Country 
B impose its local filing requirement on a Constituent Entity of an M