ur higher costs (e.g. due to start-up costs or increased 
marketing efforts) and hence achieve lower profit levels than other taxpayers 
operating in the same market.
1.136.  Timing issues can pose particular problems for tax administrations 
when  evaluating  whether  a  taxpayer  is  following  a  business  strategy  that 
distinguishes it from potential comparables. Some business strategies, such 
as those involving market penetration or expansion of market share, involve 
reductions in the taxpayer’s current profits in anticipation of increased future 
profits.  If  in  the  future  those  increased  profits  fail  to  materialise  because 
the purported business strategy was not actually followed by the taxpayer, 
the  appropriate  transfer  pricing  outcome  would  likely  require  a  transfer 
pricing adjustment. However legal constraints may prevent re-examination 
of earlier tax years by the tax administrations. At least in part for this reason, 
tax administrations may wish to subject the  issue of business  strategies to 
particular scrutiny.
1.137.  When  evaluating  whether  a  taxpayer  was  following  a  business 
strategy  that  temporarily  decreased  profits  in  return  for  higher  long-run 
profits,  several  factors  should  be  considered.  Tax  administrations  should 
examine the conduct of the parties to determine if it is consistent with the 
purported  business  strategy.  For  example,  if  a  manufacturer  charges  its 
associated distributor a below-market price as part of a market penetration 
strategy,  the  cost  savings  to  the  distributor  may  be  reflected  in  the  price 
charged  to  the  distributor’s  customers  or  in  greater  market  penetration 
expenses  incurred  by  the  distributor.  A  market  penetration  strategy  of  an 
MNE  group  could  be  put  in  place  either  by  the  manufacturer  or  by  the 
distributor  acting  separately  from  the  manufacturer  (and  the  resulting 
cost borne by either of them), or by both of them acting in a co-ordinated 
manner. Furthermore, unusually intensive marketing and advertising efforts 
would  often  accompany  a  market  penetration  or  market  share  expansion 
strategy. Another factor to consider is whether the nature of the relationship 
between  the  parties  to  the  controlled  transaction  would  be  consistent  with 
the taxpayer bearing the costs of the business strategy. For example, in arm’s 
length transactions a company acting solely as a sales agent with little or no 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

74 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

responsibility  for  long-term  market  development  would  generally  not  bear 
the costs of a market penetration strategy. Where a company has undertaken 
market  development  activities  at  its  own  risk  and  enhances  the  value  of  a 
product through a trademark or trade name or increases goodwill associated 
with the product, this situation should be reflected in the analysis of functions 
for the purposes of establishing comparability.

1.138.  An additional consideration is whether there is a plausible expectation 
that  following  the  business  strategy  will  produce  a  return  sufficient  to 
justify its costs within a period of time that would be acceptable in an arm’s 
length arrangement. It is recognised that a business strategy such as market 
penetration may fail, and the failure does not of itself allow the strategy to be 
ignored for transfer pricing purposes. However, if such an expected outcome 
was  implausible  at  the  time  of  the  transaction,  or  if  the  business  strategy 
is  unsuccessful  but  nonetheless  is  continued  beyond  what  an  independent 
enterprise would accept, the arm’s length nature of the business strategy may be 
doubtful and may warrant a transfer pricing adjustment. In determining what 
period  of  time  an  independent  enterprise  would  accept,  tax  administrations 
may  wish  to  consider  evidence  of  the  commercial  strategies  evident  in  the 
jurisdiction  in  which  the  business  strategy  is  being  pursued.  In  the  end, 
however, the most important consideration is whether the strategy in question 
could plausibly be expected to prove profitable within the foreseeable future 
(while recognising that the strategy might fail), and that a party operating at 
arm’s length would have been prepared to sacrifice profitability for a similar 
period under such economic circumstances and competitive conditions.

D.2.  Recognition of the accurately delineated transaction

1.139.  Following the guidance in the previous section, the transfer pricing 
analysis  will  have  identified  the  substance  of  the  commercial  or  financial 
relations between the parties, and will have accurately delineated the actual 
transaction by analysing the economically relevant characteristics.

In  performing  the  analysis,  the  actual  transaction  between  the 
1.140. 
parties will have