

8.3. 
A  CCA  is  a  contractual  arrangement  among  business  enterprises 
to  share  the  contributions  and  risks  involved  in  the  joint  development, 
production or the obtaining of intangibles, tangible assets or services with the 
understanding that such intangibles, tangible assets or services are expected 
to create benefits for the individual businesses of each of the participants. A 
CCA is a contractual arrangement rather than necessarily a distinct juridical 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
338 – CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS

entity  or  fixed  place  of  business  of  all  the  participants.  A  CCA  does  not 
require the participants to combine their operations in order, for example, to 
exploit any resulting intangibles jointly or to share the revenues or profits. 
Rather,  CCA  participants  may  exploit  their  interest  in  the  outcomes  of  a 
CCA through their individual businesses. The transfer pricing issues focus 
on  the  commercial  or  financial  relations  between  the  participants  and  the 
contributions made by the participants that create the opportunities to achieve 
those outcomes.
8.4. 
As indicated in Section D.1 of Chapter I, the delineation of the actual 
transaction undertaken forms the first phase in any transfer pricing analysis. 
The  contractual  agreement  provides  the  starting  point  for  delineating  the 
actual transaction. In this respect, no difference exists for a transfer pricing 
analysis  between  a  CCA  and  any  other  kind  of  contractual  arrangement 
where  the  division  of  responsibilities,  risks,  and  anticipated  outcomes  as 
determined  by  the  functional  analysis  of  the  transaction  is  the  same.  The 
guidance  on  identifying  the  other  economically  relevant  characteristics  is 
equally applicable to CCAs as to any other type of contractual arrangement, 
including  an  assessment  as  to  whether  the  parties  contractually  assuming 
risks are actually assuming these risks based on the framework for analysing 
risk  set  out  in  paragraph  1.60  of  these  Guidelines.  As  a  consequence, 
parties  performing  activities  under  arrangements  with  similar  economic 
characteristics should receive similar expected returns, irrespective of whether 
the contractual arrangement in a particular case is termed a CCA. However, 
there are specific characteristics of CCAs that warrant special consideration.
8.5. 
A key feature of a CCA is the sharing of contributions. In accordance 
with  the  arm’s  length  principle,  at  the  time  of  entering  into  a  CCA,  each 
participant’s proportionate share of the overall contributions to a CCA must 
be consistent with its proportionate share of the overall expected benefits to 
be received under the arrangement. Further, in the case of CCAs involving 
the  development,  production  or  obtaining  of  intangibles  or  tangible  assets, 
an ownership interest in any intangibles or tangible assets resulting from the 
activity of the CCA, or rights to use or exploit those intangibles or tangible 
assets, is contractually provided for each participant. For CCAs for services, 
each participant is contractually entitled to receive services resulting from 
the activity of the CCA. In either case, participants may exploit the interest, 
rights or entitlement without paying additional consideration (other than the 
contributions  and  balancing  payments  described  in  Sections  C.4  and  C.5, 
respectively) to any party for such interest, rights or entitlement.

8.6. 
Some  benefits  of  the  CCA  activity  can  be  determined  in  advance, 
whereas  others  will  be  uncertain.  Some  types  of  CCA  activities  will 
produce current benefits, while others have a longer time frame or may not 
be  successful.  Nevertheless,  in  a  CCA  there  is  always  an  expected  benefit 
that  each  participant  seeks  from  its  contribution,  including  the  attendant 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS – 339

rights to have the CCA properly administered. Each participant’s interest in 
the results of the CCA activity should be established from the outset, even 
where the interest is inter-linked with that of other participants, e.g. because 
legal  ownership  of  developed  intangibles  or  tangible  assets  may  be  vested 
in only one of them but all of them have certain rights to use or exploit the 
intangibles  or  tangible  assets  as  provided  in  the  contractual  arrangements 
(for example, perpetual, royalty-free licences for the territory in which the 
individual participant operates).

8.7. 
In some cases CCAs can provide helpful simplification of multiple 
transactions (bearing in mind that the tax consequences of transactions are 
determined in accordance with applicable local laws). In a situation where 
associated enterprises both perform activities for other group members and 
simu