 to be achieved in years 6 and 7. The taxpayer cannot 
demonstrate that its original valuation took into account the possibility that 
sales  would  arise  in  earlier  periods,  and  cannot  demonstrate  that  such  a 
development was unforeseeable.

24. 
The tax administration uses the presumptive evidence provided by 
the  ex  post  outcome  to  determine  that  the  valuation  made  at  the  time  the 
transaction  took  place  did  not  consider  the  possibility  of  sales  occurring 
in  earlier  years.  The  taxpayer’s  original  valuation  is  revised  to  include  the 
appropriately risk-adjusted possibility of earlier sales resulting in a revised 
net present value of the drug in year 0 of 1 000 instead of 700. The revised 
net  present  value  also  takes  into  account  the  functions  performed,  assets 
used and risks assumed in relation to the HTVI by each of the parties before 
the transaction and reasonably anticipated, at the time of the transaction, to 
be performed, used or assumed by each of the parties after the transaction. 
Therefore, assume for the purposes of the example that the arm’s length price 
anticipated in year 0 should have been 1 000. Note that the value of 1 000 is 
not necessarily the net present value of the transferred rights based solely on 
the actual outcome (see paragraph 6 of this guidance).

In  accordance  with  the  approach  to  HTVI,  the  tax  administration 
25. 
is entitled to make an adjustment to assess the additional profits of 300 in 
year 0.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

640 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER VI: HARD-TO-VALUE INTANGIBLES

Scenario B

The tax administration uses the presumptive evidence provided by 
26. 
the ex post outcomes to determine that the valuation made at the time the 
transaction  took  place,  did  not  consider  the  possibility  of  sales  occurring 
in  earlier  years.  The  taxpayer’s  original  valuation  is  revised  to  include  the 
appropriately  risk-adjusted  possibility  of  sales  occurring  in  earlier  years 
resulting in a revised net present value of the drug in year 0 of 800 instead of 
700. Therefore, assume for the purposes of the example that the arm’s length 
price anticipated in year 0 should have been 800. Note that the value of 800 
is not necessarily the net present value of the transferred rights based solely 
on the actual outcome (see paragraph 6 of this guidance).

27. 
In  accordance  with  the  approach  to  HTVI,  the  tax  administration 
is  entitled  to  make  an  adjustment  to  assess  the  additional  profits  of  100  in 
year  0.  However,  in  this  example,  the  exemption  provided  by  item  (iii)  in 
paragraph 6.193 applies since the adjustment to the compensation for the transfer 
is within 20% of the compensation determined at the time of the transaction.

Example 2

28. 
The facts are the same as in paragraphs 21-22. Based on those facts, 
assume that in year 7, the tax administration of Country A audits Company A 
for years 3-5 and obtains information that sales in years 5 and 6 of the product 
to which the patent relates were significantly higher than those projected. In 
the original valuation, the taxpayer had not projected sales any higher than 
1 000 in any year, but outcomes in each of years 5 and 6 show sales of 1 500. 
The taxpayer cannot demonstrate that its original valuation took into account 
the possibility that sales would reach these levels, and cannot demonstrate that 
reaching that level of sales was due to an unforeseeable development.

29. 
The  tax  administration  uses  the  presumptive  evidence  provided 
by  the  ex  post  outcomes  to  determine  that  the  possibility  of  higher  sales 
should have been taken into account in the valuation. The taxpayer’s original 
valuation is revised to include the appropriately risk-adjusted possibility of 
sales occurring in earlier years, resulting in a revised net present value of the 
drug in year 0 of 1 300 instead of 700. The revised net present value also 
takes into account the functions performed, assets used and risks assumed 
in  relation  to  the  HTVI  by  each  of  the  parties  before  the  transaction  and 
reasonably anticipated, at the time of the transaction, to be performed, used 
or assumed by each of the parties after the transaction. Therefore, assume for 
the purposes of the example that the arm’s length price anticipated in year 0 
should have been 1 300. Note that the value of 1 300 is not necessarily the net 
present value of the transferred rights based solely on the actual outcome (see 
paragraph 6 of this guidance).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER VI: HARD-TO-VALUE INTANGIBLES – 641

30. 
In  accordance  with  the  approach  to  HTVI,  the  tax  administration 
is  entitled  to  make  an  adjustment  to  assess  the  additional  profits  of  600. 
Assume for the purposes of this example that none of the exemptions listed 
in paragraph 6.193