 on  a 
transaction-by-transaction basis. However, there are often situations where 
separate  transactions  are  so  closely  linked  or  continuous  that  they  cannot 
be evaluated adequately on a separate basis. Examples may include: a) some 
long-term contracts for the supply of commodities or services, b) rights to 
use  intangible  property,  and  c)  pricing  a  range  of  closely-linked  products 
(e.g. in a product line) when it is impractical to determine pricing for each 
individual product or transaction. Another example would be the licensing of 
manufacturing know-how and the supply of vital components to an associated 
manufacturer; it may be more reasonable to assess the arm’s length terms for 
the two items together rather than individually. Such transactions should be 
evaluated together using the most appropriate arm’s length method. A further 
example  would  be  the  routing  of  a  transaction  through  another  associated 
enterprise; it may be more appropriate to consider the transaction of which 
the  routing  is  a  part  in  its  entirety,  rather  than  consider  the  individual 
transactions on a separate basis. See example 26 of Annex I to Chapter VI.

3.10.  Another  example  where  a  taxpayer’s  transactions  may  be  combined 
is related to portfolio approaches. A portfolio approach is a business strategy 
consisting of a taxpayer bundling certain transactions for the purpose of earning 
an appropriate return across the portfolio rather than necessarily on any single 
product within the portfolio. For instance, some products may be marketed by 
a taxpayer with a low profit or even at a loss, because they create a demand for 
other products and/or related services of the same taxpayer that are then sold or 
provided with high profits (e.g. equipment and captive aftermarket consumables, 
such as vending coffee machines and coffee capsules, or printers and cartridges). 
Similar approaches can be observed in various industries. Portfolio approaches 
are an example of a business strategy that may need to be taken into account in 
the comparability analysis and when examining the reliability of comparables. 
See  paragraphs  1.134-1.138  on  business  strategies.  However,  as  discussed  in 
paragraphs 1.149-1.151, these considerations will not explain continued overall 
losses  or  poor  performance  over  time.  Moreover,  in  order  to  be  acceptable, 
portfolio approaches must be reasonably targeted as they should not be used to 
apply a transfer pricing method at the taxpayer’s company-wide level in those 
cases  where  different  transactions  have  different  economic  logic  and  should 
be segmented. See paragraphs 2.84-2.85. Finally, the above comments should 
not be misread as implying that it would be acceptable for one entity within an 
MNE group to have a below arm’s length return in order to provide benefits to 
another entity of the MNE group, see in particular paragraph 1.150.

3.11.  While  some  separately  contracted  transactions  between  associated 
enterprises may need to be evaluated together in order to determine whether 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS – 153

the conditions are arm’s length, other transactions contracted between such 
enterprises as a package may need to be evaluated separately. An MNE may 
package  as  a  single  transaction  and  establish  a  single  price  for  a  number 
of  benefits  such  as  licences  for  patents,  know-how,  and  trademarks,  the 
provision of technical and administrative services, and the lease of production 
facilities.  This  type  of  arrangement  is  often  referred  to  as  a  package  deal. 
Such comprehensive packages would be unlikely to include sales of goods, 
however,  although  the  price  charged  for  sales  of  goods  may  cover  some 
accompanying services. In some cases, it may not be feasible to evaluate the 
package as a whole so that the elements of the package must be segregated. 
In  such  cases,  after  determining  separate  transfer  pricing  for  the  separate 
elements, the tax administration should nonetheless consider whether in total 
the transfer pricing for the entire package is arm’s length.

3.12.  Even in uncontrolled transactions, package deals may combine elements 
that are subject to different tax treatment under domestic law or an income 
tax convention. For example, royalty payments may be subject to withholding 
tax but lease payments may be subject to net taxation. In such circumstances, 
it  may  still  be  appropriate  to  determine  the  transfer  pricing  on  a  package 
basis, and the tax administration could then determine whether for other tax 
reasons it is necessary to allocate the price to the elements of the package. In 
making this determination, tax administrations should examine the package 
deal between associated enterprises in the same way that they would analyse 
similar deals between independent