ciated  enterprise  for  a  lump  sum 
payment.

•  The intangible is either used in connection with or developed under a 

CCA or similar arrangements.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 305

6.191.  For  such  intangibles,  information  asymmetry  between  taxpayer 
and tax administrations, including what information the taxpayer took into 
account in determining the pricing of the transaction, may be acute and may 
exacerbate the difficulty encountered by tax administrations in verifying the 
arm’s length basis on which pricing was determined for the reasons discussed 
in paragraph 6.186. As a result, it will prove difficult for a tax administration 
to  perform  a  risk  assessment  for  transfer  pricing  purposes,  to  evaluate 
the  reliability  of  the  information  on  which  pricing  has  been  based  by  the 
taxpayer, or to consider whether the intangible or rights in intangibles have 
been  transferred  at  undervalue  or  overvalue  compared  to  the  arm’s  length 
price, until ex post outcomes are known in years subsequent to the transfer.

6.192.  In these circumstances, the tax administration can consider ex post 
outcomes as presumptive evidence about the appropriateness of the ex ante 
pricing arrangements. However, the consideration of ex post evidence should 
be  based  on  a  determination  that  such  evidence  is  necessary  to  be  taken 
into  account  to  assess  the  reliability  of  the  information  on  which  ex  ante 
pricing  has  been  based.  Where  the  tax  administration  is  able  to  confirm 
the reliability of the information on which ex ante pricing has been based, 
notwithstanding  the  approach  described  in  this  section,  then  adjustments 
based on ex post profit levels should not be made. In evaluating the ex ante 
pricing  arrangements,  the  tax  administration  is  entitled  to  use  the  ex  post 
evidence about financial outcomes to inform the determination of the arm’s 
length pricing arrangements, including any contingent pricing arrangements, 
that would have been made between independent enterprises at the time of 
the  transaction,  considering  the  guidance  in  paragraph  6.185.  Depending 
on the facts and circumstances of the case and considering the guidance in 
Section B.5 of Chapter III, a multi-year analysis of the information for the 
application of this approach may be appropriate.

6.193.  This approach will not apply to transactions involving the transfer or 
use of HTVI falling within the scope of paragraph 6.189, when at least one of 
the following exemptions applies:

i)  The taxpayer provides:

1.  Details of the  ex ante projections used at the time of the transfer 
to  determine  the  pricing  arrangements,  including  how  risks  were 
accounted for in calculations to determine the price (e.g. probability-
weighted), and the appropriateness of its consideration of reasonably 
foreseeable events and other risks, and the probability of occurrence; 
and,

2.  Reliable  evidence  that  any  significant  difference  between  the 
financial projections and actual outcomes is due to: a) unforeseeable 
developments  or  events  occurring  after  the  determination  of 
the  price  that  could  not  have  been  anticipated  by  the  associated 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

306 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

enterprises at the time of the transaction; or b) the playing out 
of  probability  of  occurrence  of  foreseeable  outcomes,  and  that 
these  probabilities  were  not  significantly  overestimated  or 
underestimated at the time of the transaction;

ii)  The  transfer  of  the  HTVI  is  covered  by  a  bilateral  or  multilateral 
advance  pricing  arrangement  in  effect  for  the  period  in  question 
between the jurisdictions of the transferee and the transferor.

iii)  Any  significant  difference  between  the  financial  projections  and 
actual outcomes mentioned in i)2 above does not have the effect of 
reducing or increasing the compensation for the HTVI by more than 
20% of the compensation determined at the time of the transaction.

iv)  A commercialisation period of five years has passed following the 
year in which the HTVI first generated unrelated party revenues for 
the transferee and in which commercialisation period any significant 
difference  between  the  financial  projections  and  actual  outcomes 
mentioned in i)2 above was not greater than 20% of the projections 
for that period.7

6.194.  The first exemption means that, although the ex post evidence about 
financial  outcomes  provides  relevant  information  for  tax  administrations 
to  consider  the  appropriateness  of  the  ex  ante  pricing  arrangements,  in 
circumstances  where  the  taxpayer  can  satisfactorily  demonstrate  what 
was  foreseeable  at  the  time  of  the  transaction  and  reflected  in  the  pricing 
assumptions,  and  that  the  developments  leading  to  the  differe