re activities such as those described 
above  are  performed  by  a  group  company  other  than  solely  because  of  an 
ownership  interest  in  other  group  members,  then  that  group  company  is 
not  performing  shareholder  activities  but  should  be  regarded  as  providing 
a  service  to  the  parent  or  holding  company  to  which  the  guidance  in  this 
chapter applies.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES – 317

B.1.3. Duplication

In  general,  no  intra-group  service  should  be  found  for  activities 
7.11. 
undertaken  by  one  group  member  that  merely  duplicate  a  service  that 
another group member is performing for itself, or that is being performed for 
such other group member by a third party. An exception may be where the 
duplication of services is only temporary, for example, where an MNE group 
is  reorganising  to  centralise  its  management  functions.  Another  exception 
would be where the duplication is undertaken to reduce the risk of a wrong 
business decision (e.g. by getting a second legal opinion on a subject). Any 
consideration of possible duplication of services needs to identify the nature 
of  the  services  in  detail,  and  the  reason  why  the  company  appears  to  be 
duplicating  costs  contrary  to  efficient  practices.  The  fact  that  a  company 
performs,  for  example,  marketing  services  in-house  and  also  is  charged 
for marketing services from a group company does not of itself determine 
duplication, since marketing is a broad term covering many levels of activity. 
Examination  of  information  provided  by  the  taxpayer  may  determine  that 
the  intra-group  services  are  different,  additional,  or  complementary  to  the 
activities  performed  in-house.  The  benefits  test  would  then  apply  to  those 
non-duplicative elements of the intra-group services. Some regulated sectors 
require control functions to be performed locally as well as on a consolidated 
basis  by  the  parent;  such  requirements  should  not  lead  to  disallowance  on 
grounds of duplication.

B.1.4. Incidental benefits

7.12.  There  are  some  cases  where  an  intra-group  service  performed  by 
a  group  member  such  as  a  shareholder  or  co-ordinating  centre  relates  only 
to  some  group  members  but  incidentally  provides  benefits  to  other  group 
members.  Examples  could  be  analysing  the  question  whether  to  reorganise 
the group, to acquire new members, or to terminate a division. These activities 
could  constitute  intra-group  services  to  the  particular  group  members 
involved,  for  example  those  members  who  may  make  the  acquisition  or 
terminate one of their divisions, but they may also produce economic benefits 
for other group members not directly involved in the potential decision since 
the  analysis  could  provide  useful  information  about  their  own  business 
operations.  The  incidental  benefits  ordinarily  would  not  cause  these  other 
group members to be treated as receiving an intra-group service because the 
activities producing the benefits would not be ones for which an independent 
enterprise ordinarily would be willing to pay.

7.13. 
Similarly,  an  associated  enterprise  should  not  be  considered  to 
receive an intra-group service when it obtains incidental benefits attributable 
solely to its being part of a larger concern, and not to any specific activity 
being  performed.  For  example,  no  service  would  be  received  where  an 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

318 – CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES

associated  enterprise  by  reason  of  its  affiliation  alone  has  a  credit-rating 
higher than it would if it were unaffiliated, but an intra-group service would 
usually  exist  where  the  higher  credit  rating  were  due  to  a  guarantee  by 
another  group  member,  or  where  the  enterprise  benefitted  from  deliberate 
concerted action involving global marketing and public relations campaigns. 
In  this  respect,  passive  association  should  be  distinguished  from  active 
promotion of the MNE group’s attributes that positively enhances the profit-
making  potential  of  particular  members  of  the  group.  Each  case  must  be 
determined according to its own facts and circumstances. See Section D.8 of 
Chapter I on MNE group synergies.

B.1.5. Centralised services

7.14.  Other  activities  that  may  relate  to  the  group  as  a  whole  are  those 
centralised  in  the  parent  company  or  one  or  more  group  service  centres 
(such as a regional headquarters company) and made available to the group 
(or  multiple  members  thereof).  The  activities  that  are  centralised  depend 
on  the  kind  of  business  and  on  the  organisational  structure  of  the  group, 
but  in  general  they  may  include  administrative  services  such  as  planning, 
co-ordination, budgetary contro