s regard are 
highly integrated. Additionally, Company A and Company B are responsible 
for the marketing and distribution of the products to unrelated customers in 
Country A and in Country B, respectively.

79. 
Company A and Company B enter into an agreement to buy and sell 
pieces,  moulds  and  different  components  to  manufacture  various  different 
models  of  products.  These  transactions  may  also  relate  to  semi-finished 
products to effectively meet customers’ demands in a timely fashion. As a 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

486 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD

result of their broad experience in the sector, Company A and Company B 
have each developed unique and valuable know-how and other intangibles in 
their respective design and manufacturing processes.

80. 
The functional analysis shows the economically significant risks are 
the strategic and operational risks in relation to the design and manufacturing 
functions and that Company A and Company B are engaged in a complex web 
of intragroup transactions where the performance of each company heavily 
depends  on  the  capacity  of  the  other  to  provide  the  different  components 
and  other  inputs.  The  manufacturing  and  design  activities  of  Company  A 
and  Company  B  are  highly  interdependent  and  the  entities  both  perform 
relevant  control  functions  in  relation  to  the  economically  significant  risks. 
In accordance with the risk analysis framework described in Section D.1.2.1 
of  Chapter  I  of  these  Guidelines,  it  is  determined  that  Company  A  and 
Company  B  share  the  assumption  of  the  risks  relating  to  design  and 
manufacturing.  Both  Companies  A  and  B  make  unique  and  valuable 
contributions to the design and manufacturing processes.

81. 
Under  these  circumstances,  the  transactional  profit  split  method  is 
likely to be the most appropriate method for determining the compensation 
for Companies A and B in relation to their intra-group transactions

82. 
In  the  absence  of  comparable  uncontrolled  transactions  or  direct 
evidence of how independent parties would have split the profits in comparable 
circumstances, the profit split can be applied based on the relative value of the 
contributions  of  Company  A  and  Company  B.  In  particular,  an  asset-based 
splitting  factor  may  be  appropriate,  provided  that  the  functional  analysis 
concludes that there is a strong correlation between the assets of Company A 
and  Company  B  and  the  creation  of  value  in  the  context  of  their  controlled 
transactions.

Example 16

Company  A,  Company  B  and  Company  C,  members  of  the  same 
83. 
MNE  group,  jointly  agree  to  share  the  “greenfield”  development  of  a  new 
product.  In  this  regard,  none  of  the  entities  brings  existing  contributions 
of  value  such  as  pre-existing  intangibles  to  the  project.  Each  associated 
enterprise will be responsible for developing and manufacturing one of the 
three key components of the product.

84. 
In this case, assume that the transactional profit split is found to be the 
most appropriate method for determining the profits of the three companies 
from  the  sale  of  the  new  product.  The  functional  analysis  concludes  that 
the  relative  contributions  of  the  parties  may  be  measured  by  reference  to 
the  relative  expenses  incurred  by  each  company  in  the  development  of  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD – 487

components as there is a direct correlation between these relative expenses 
and the relative value contributed by each company. Accordingly, the relevant 
profits (losses) in relation to the sales of the new product can be split based on 
the relative development costs incurred by each of the parties.

85. 
In this example, the splitting of profits based on relative development 
costs will yield results similar to those which would have resulted under an 
analogous cost contribution arrangement, since parties performing activities 
with  similar  economic  characteristics  should  receive  similar  expected 
returns, irrespective of whether the contractual arrangement in a particular 
case is termed as a CCA or not (see paragraph 8.4).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX TO CHAPTER III: EXAMPLE ON WORKING CAPITAL ADJUSTMENT – 489

Annex to Chapter III 

Example of a working capital adjustment

See  Chapter  III,  Section  A.6  of  these  Guidelines  for  general  guidance  on 
comparability adjustments.

The assumptions about arm’s length arrangements in the following examples are 
intended  for  illustrative  purposes  only  and  should  not  be  taken  as  prescribing 
adjustments and arm’s length arrangements in actual cases of particular industries. 
While they seek to demonstrate the principles of the section