 the position that it was 
not possible at the time of the transfer to predict the subsequent success of 
the product with full certainty. The difference between the ex ante and ex 
post value of the intangible would therefore be claimed by the taxpayer to be 
attributable to more favourable developments than anticipated. The general 
experience  of  tax  administrations  in  these  situations  is  that  they  may  not 
have the specific business insights or access to the information to be able to 
examine the taxpayer’s claim and to demonstrate that the difference between 
the  ex  ante  and  ex  post  value  of  the  intangible  is  due  to  non-arm’s  length 
pricing  assumptions  made  by  the  taxpayer.  Instead,  tax  administrations 
seeking to examine the taxpayer’s claim are largely dependent on the insights 
and information provided by that taxpayer. These situations associated with 
information asymmetry between taxpayers and tax administrations can give 
rise to transfer pricing risk. See paragraph 6.191.

In these situations involving the transfer of an intangible or rights in 
6.187. 
an intangible ex post outcomes can provide a pointer to tax administrations 
about the arm’s length nature of the ex ante pricing arrangement agreed upon 
by the associated enterprises, and the existence of uncertainties at the time of 
the transaction. If there are differences between the ex ante projections and 
the ex post results which are not due to unforeseeable developments or events, 
the differences may give an indication that the pricing arrangement agreed 
upon  by  the  associated  enterprises  at  the  time  the  transaction  was  entered 
into may not have adequately taken into account the relevant developments 
or events that might have been expected to affect the value of the intangible 
and the pricing arrangements adopted.

6.188.  In  response  to  the  considerations  discussed  above,  this  section 
contains  an  approach  consistent  with  the  arm’s  length  principle  that  tax 
administrations can adopt to ensure that tax administrations can determine 
in  which  situations  the  pricing  arrangements  as  set  by  the  taxpayers  are  at 
arm’s  length  and  are  based  on  an  appropriate  weighting  of  the  foreseeable 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

304 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

developments  or  events  that  are  relevant  for  the  valuation  of  certain  hard-
to-value  intangibles,  and  in  which  situations  this  is  not  the  case.  Under 
this  approach,  ex  post  evidence  provides  presumptive  evidence  as  to  the 
existence of uncertainties at the time of the transaction, whether the taxpayer 
appropriately took into account reasonably foreseeable developments or events 
at the time of the transaction, and the reliability of the information used ex 
ante in determining the transfer price for the transfer of such intangibles or 
rights in intangibles. Such presumptive evidence may be subject to rebuttal 
as stated in paragraphs 6.193 and 6.194, if it can be demonstrated that it does 
not affect the accurate determination of the arm’s length price. This situation 
should be distinguished from the situation in which hindsight is used by taking 
ex post results for tax assessment purposes without considering whether the 
information on which the ex post results are based could or should reasonably 
have been known and considered by the associated enterprises at the time the 
transaction was entered into.

6.189.  The  term  hard-to-value  intangibles  (HTVI)  covers  intangibles 
or  rights  in  intangibles  for  which,  at  the  time  of  their  transfer  between 
associated enterprises, (i) no reliable comparables exist, and (ii) at the time the 
transactions was entered into, the projections of future cash flows or income 
expected  to  be  derived  from  the  transferred  intangible,  or  the  assumptions 
used  in  valuing  the  intangible  are  highly  uncertain,  making  it  difficult  to 
predict the level of ultimate success of the intangible at the time of the transfer.

6.190.  Transactions involving the transfer or the use of HTVI in paragraph 6.189 
may exhibit one or more of the following features:

•  The intangible is only partially developed at the time of the transfer.

•  The  intangible  is  not  expected  to  be  exploited  commercially  until 

several years following the transaction.

•  The intangible does not itself fall within the definition of HTVI in 
paragraph 6.189 but is integral to the development or enhancement of 
other intangibles which fall within that definition of HTVI.

•  The intangible is expected to be exploited in a manner that is novel 
at  the  time  of  the  transfer  and  the  absence  of  a  track  record  of 
development or exploitation of similar intangibles makes projections 
highly uncertain.

•  The intangible, meeting the definition of HTVI under paragraph 6.189, 
has  been  transferred  to  an  asso