tions 
create  the  synergies.  However,  in  a  business  restructuring,  the  central 
procurement  company  may  also  contractually  assume  risk  associated  with 
buying, holding, and on-selling goods. As stated in the previous section, an 
analysis of risk under the framework provided in Section D.1.2.1 of Chapter I 
will  determine  the  economic  significance  of  the  risk  and  which  party  or 
parties  assume  that  risk.  Although  the  central  procurement  operation  is 
entitled to profit potential arising from its assumption of the risk associated 
with buying, holding, and on-selling goods, it is not entitled to retain profits 
arising from the group purchasing power because it does not contribute to the 
creation of synergies (see paragraph 1.188).

9.26.  The fact that a business restructuring may be motivated by anticipated 
synergies  does  not  necessarily  mean  that  the  profits  of  the  MNE  group 
will  effectively  increase  after  the  restructuring.  It  may  be  the  case  that 
enhanced synergies make it possible for the MNE group to derive additional 
profits compared to what the situation would have been in the future if the 
restructuring had not taken place, but there may not necessarily be additional 
profits  compared  to  the  pre-restructuring  situation,  for  instance  if  the 
restructuring is needed to maintain competitiveness rather than to increase it. 
In addition, expected synergies do not always materialise – there can be cases 
where the implementation of a global business model designed to derive more 
group synergies in fact leads to additional costs and less efficiency.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

368 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

B.3. Other options realistically available to the parties

9.27.  The  arm’s  length  principle  is  based  on  the  notion  that  independent 
enterprises, when evaluating the terms of a potential transaction, will compare 
the transaction to the other options realistically available to them, and they 
will  only  enter  into  the  transaction  if  they  see  no  alternative  that  offers  a 
clearly  more  attractive  opportunity  to  meet  their  commercial  objective.  In 
other words, independent enterprises would only enter into a transaction if it 
does not make them worse off than their next best option. Consideration of the 
other options realistically available may be relevant to comparability analysis, 
to understand the respective positions of the parties.

9.28.  Thus,  in  applying  the  arm’s  length  principle,  the  tax  administration 
should evaluate each transaction as accurately delineated under the guidance 
in Section D of Chapter I and consider the economically relevant characteristics 
taken into account by the parties in reaching the conclusion that there is no 
option realistically available that offers a clearly more attractive opportunity 
to  meet  their  commercial  objectives  than  the  restructuring  adopted  (see 
paragraph 1.38). In making such assessment, it may be necessary or useful to 
assess the transactions comprising the business restructuring in the context of 
a broader arrangement of economically related transactions.

9.29.  At  arm’s  length,  there  are  situations  where  the  restructured  entity 
would have had no clearly more attractive option realistically available to it 
than to accept the conditions of the restructuring, e.g. a contract termination 
– with or without indemnification as discussed in Section F below. In longer-
term contracts, this may occur by invoking an exit clause that allows for one 
party to prematurely exit the contract with just cause. In contracts that allow 
either party to opt out of the contract, the party terminating the arrangement 
may choose to do so because it has determined, subject to the terms of the 
termination clause, that it is more favourable to stop using the function, or 
to internalise it, or to engage a cheaper or more efficient provider or to seek 
more  lucrative  opportunities.  If  the  restructured  entity  transfers  rights  or 
other  assets  or  an  ongoing  concern  to  another  party,  it  might  however  be 
compensated for such a transfer as discussed in Section E below.

9.30.  At arm’s length, there are also situations where an entity would have 
had one or more options realistically available to it that would clearly offer 
more  attractive  opportunities  to  meet  their  objectives  than  to  accept  the 
conditions of the restructuring (taking into account all the relevant conditions, 
including  the  commercial  and  market  conditions  going  forward,  the  profit 
potential  of  the  various  options  and  any  compensation  or  indemnification 
for  the  restructuring),  including  possibly  the  option  not  to  enter  into  the 
restructuring transaction. In such cases, an independent party may not have 
agreed to the conditions of the restructuring and adjustments to the co