mpensation 
to be paid by Company C for the intangibles sold by Company B, it may be 
appropriate to value the transferred intangibles in the aggregate rather than to 
attempt a valuation on an asset by asset basis. This would particularly be the 
case if there is a significant difference between the sum of the best available 
estimates  of  the  value  of  individually  identified  intangibles  and  other  assets 
when valued separately and the value of the business as a whole.

Example 29

104. 
Pervichnyi  is  the  parent  of  an  MNE  group  organised  and  doing 
business  in  Country  X.  Prior  to  year  1,  Pervichnyi  developed  patents  and 
trademarks  related  to  Product  F.  It  manufactured  Product  F  in  Country  X 
and supplied the product to distribution affiliates throughout the world. For 
purposes of this example assume the prices charged to distribution affiliates 
were consistently arm’s length.

105.  At  the  beginning  of  year  1,  Pervichnyi  organises  a  wholly  owned 
subsidiary,  Company  S,  in  Country  y.  In  order  to  save  costs,  Pervichnyi 
transfers  all  of  its  production  of  Product  F  to  Company  S.  At  the  time  of 
the organisation of Company S, Pervichnyi sells the patents and trademarks 
related to Product F to Company S for a lump sum. Under these circumstances, 
Pervichnyi  and  Company  S  seek  to  identify  an  arm’s  length  price  for  the 
transferred intangibles by utilising a discounted cash flow valuation technique.

106.  According to this valuation analysis, Pervichnyi could have generated 
after tax residual cash flows (after rewarding all functional activities of other 
members of the MNE group on an arm’s length basis) having a present value 
of 600 by continuing to manufacture Product F in Country X. The valuation 
from the buyer’s perspective shows that Company S could generate after tax 
residual cash flows having a present value of 1 100 if it owned the intangibles 
and  manufactured  the  product  in  Country  y.  The  difference  in  the  present 
value  of  Pervichnyi’s  after  tax  residual  cash  flow  and  the  present  value  of 
Company S’s after tax residual cash flow is attributable to several factors.

107.  Another option open to Pervichnyi would be for Pervichnyi to retain 
ownership  of  the  intangible,  and  to  retain  Company  S  or  an  alternative 
supplier to manufacture products on its behalf in Country y. In this scenario, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 631

Pervichnyi calculates it would be able to generate after tax cash flow with a 
present value of 875.

108. 
In defining arm’s length compensation for the intangibles transferred 
by  Pervichnyi  to  Company  S,  it  is  important  to  take  into  account  the 
perspectives of both parties, the options realistically available to each of them, 
and  the  particular  facts  and  circumstances  of  the  case.  Pervichnyi  would 
certainly not sell the intangibles at a price that would yield an after tax residual 
cash flow with a present value lower than 600, the residual cash flow it could 
generate by retaining the intangible and continuing to operate in the manner it 
had done historically. Moreover there is no reason to believe Pervichnyi would 
sell the intangible for a price that would yield an after tax residual cash flow 
with a present value lower than 875. If Pervichnyi could capture the production 
cost savings by retaining another entity to manufacture on its behalf in a low 
cost  environment,  one  realistically  available  option  open  to  it  would  be  to 
establish such a contract manufacturing operation. That realistically available 
option  should  be  taken  into  account  in  determining  the  selling  price  of  the 
intangible.

109. 
Company  S  would  not  be  expected  to  pay  a  price  that  would,  after 
taking into account all relevant facts and circumstances, leave it with an after 
tax  return  lower  than  it  could  achieve  by  not  engaging  in  the  transaction. 
According to the discounted cash flow valuation, the net present value of the 
after tax residual cash flow it could generate using the intangible in its business 
would  be  1  100.  A  price  might  be  negotiated  that  would  give  Pervichnyi  a 
return equal to or greater than its other available options, and give Company S 
a  positive  return  on  its  investment  considering  all  of  the  relevant  facts, 
including the manner in which the transaction itself would be taxed.

110.  A transfer pricing analysis utilising a discounted cash flow approach 
would have to consider how independent enterprises dealing at arm’s length 
would take into account the cost savings and projected tax effects in setting 
a  price  for  the  intangibles.  That  price  should,  however,  fall  in  the  range 
between  a  price  that  would  yield  Pervichnyi  after  tax  residual  cash  flow 
equivalent  t