 quality engineering services to independent 
clients.  It  charges  a  fee  to  its  independent  clients  based  on  a  fixed  hourly 
rate that compares with the hourly rate charged by competitors for similar 
services in the same market. Suppose that the wages for qualified engineers 
in Country X are high. The enterprise subsequently subcontracts a large part 
of  its  engineering  work  to  a  new  subsidiary  in  Country  y.  The  subsidiary 
in  Country  y  hires  equally  qualified  engineers  to  those  in  Country  X  for 
substantially lower wages, thus deriving significant location savings for the 
group  formed  by  the  enterprise  and  its  subsidiary  Clients  continue  to  deal 
directly with the enterprise in Country X and are not necessarily aware of 
the sub-contracting arrangement. For some period of time, the well-known 
enterprise in Country X can continue to charge its services at the original 
hourly rate despite the significantly reduced engineer costs. After a certain 
period of time, however, it is forced due to competitive pressures to decrease 
its hourly rate (at an amount that would not allow the company in Country X 
to  cover  the  wages  for  qualified  engineers  in  Country  X,  but  that  would 
still  yield  a  benefit  if  those  services  are  provided  by  qualified  engineers 
in  Country  y).  Part  of  the  location  savings  are  passed  on  to  its  clients. 
In  this  case  also,  the  question  arises  of  which  party(ies)  within  the  MNE 
group should, at arm’s length, be attributed the part of the location savings 
not passed on to the clients: the subsidiary in Country y, the enterprise in 
Country X, or both (and if so in what proportions).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

402 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

9.131. 
In  determining  which  party(ies)  should  be  attributed  the  location 
savings at arm’s length, it will be important to consider the functions, risks 
and  assets  of  the  parties,  as  well  as  the  options  realistically  available  to 
each of them. In this example, assume that there is a high demand for the 
type of engineering services that the company in Country X sells. Assume 
also  that  the  subsidiary  in  Country  y  is  the  only  company  operating  in  a 
lower-cost  location  that  is  able  to  provide  such  services  with  the  required 
quality standard, and Company y is able to withstand competitive pricing 
pressures because the technical know-how it has established acts as a barrier 
to  competition.  Furthermore,  the  company  in  Country  X  does  not  have 
the  option  of  engaging  qualified  engineers  in  Country  X  to  provide  these 
services, as the cost of their wages would be too high compared to the hourly 
rate charged to clients. Considering this, the enterprise in Country X does 
not have many other options available to it than to use this service provider. 
The remuneration payable by Company X to Company y should take into 
account the location savings created by Company y, in addition to the value 
of  its  services  including  any  intangibles  used  in  providing  those  services. 
In some instances, the nature of the contributions made by the enterprise in 
Country X and its subsidiary in Country y may meet the criteria for the use 
of a transactional profit split method.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 403

Chapter X 

Transfer pricing aspects of financial transactions

A. Introduction

10.1.  The purpose of this chapter is to provide guidance for determining 
whether the conditions of certain financial transactions between associated 
enterprises are consistent with the arm’s length principle.

10.2.  Section  B  describes  the  application  of  the  principles  of  Section  D.1 
of  Chapter  I  to  financial  transactions.  Section  C  provides  guidance  on 
determining  the  arm’s  length  conditions  for  treasury  activities  including 
intra-group  loans,  cash  pooling  and  hedging.  Section  D  examines  financial 
guarantees, and Section E outlines the analysis of captive insurance companies.

10.3.  The  conditions  of  financial  transactions  between  independent 
enterprises will be the result of various commercial considerations. In contrast, 
an MNE group has the discretion to decide upon those conditions within the 
MNE group. Thus, in an intra-group situation, other considerations such as tax 
consequences may also be present.

B. Interaction with the guidance in Section D.1 of Chapter I

B.1.  Determination of whether a purported loan should be regarded 

as a loan1

10.4. 
It may be the case that the balance of debt and equity funding of a 
borrowing entity that is part of an MNE group differs from that which would 
exist  if  it  were  an  independent  entity  operating  under  the  same  or  similar 

1. 

The guidance contained in this subsection is consistent with the Commentary on 
Articl