measure for the transactions. Tax administrators may have more 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

116 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

information  available  to  them  from  examinations  of  other  taxpayers.  See 
paragraph 3.36 for a discussion of information available to tax administrators 
that  may  not  be  disclosed  to  the  taxpayer,  and  paragraphs  3.67-3.79  for  a 
discussion of timing issues.
2.72.  Like  the  resale  price  and  cost  plus  methods,  the  transactional  net 
margin  method  is  applied  to  only  one  of  the  associated  enterprises.  The 
fact that many factors unrelated to transfer prices may affect net profits, in 
conjunction  with  the  one-sided  nature  of  the  analysis  under  this  method, 
can  affect  the  overall  reliability  of  the  transactional  net  margin  method  if 
an  insufficient  standard  of  comparability  is  applied.  Detailed  guidance  on 
establishing comparability for the transactional net margin method is given 
in Section B.3.1 below.
2.73.  There  may  also  be  difficulties  in  determining  an  appropriate 
corresponding adjustment when applying the transactional net margin method, 
particularly where it is not possible to work back to a transfer price. This could 
be the case, for example, where the taxpayer deals with associated enterprises 
on both the buying and the selling sides of the controlled trans action. In such a 
case, if the transactional net margin method indicates that the taxpayer’s profit 
should be adjusted upwards, there may be some uncertainty about which of the 
associated enterprises’ profits should be reduced.

B.3. Guidance for application

B.3.1.  The comparability standard to be applied to the transactional 

net margin method

2.74.  A  comparability  analysis  must  be  performed  in  all  cases  in  order 
to  select  and  apply  the  most  appropriate  transfer  pricing  method,  and  the 
process for selecting and applying a transactional net margin method should 
not  be  less  reliable  than  for  other  methods.  As  a  matter  of  good  practice, 
the  typical  process  for  identifying  comparable  transactions  and  using  data 
so obtained which is described in paragraph  3.4 or any equivalent process 
designed  to  ensure  robustness  of  the  analysis  should  be  followed  when 
applying a transactional net margin method, just as with any other method. 
That  being  said,  it  is  recognised  that  in  practice  the  level  of  information 
available on the factors affecting external comparable transactions is often 
limited. Determining a reliable estimate of an arm’s length outcome requires 
flexibility and the exercise of good judgment. See paragraph 1.13.

2.75. 
Prices  are  likely  to  be  affected  by  differences  in  products,  and 
gross margins are likely to be affected by differences in functions, but net 
profit indicators are less adversely affected by such differences. As with the 
resale price and cost plus methods that the transactional net margin method 
resembles, this does not mean that a mere similarity of functions between 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 117

two  enterprises  will  necessarily  lead  to  reliable  comparisons.  Assuming 
similar  functions  can  be  isolated  from  among  the  wide  range  of  functions 
that  enterprises  may  exercise,  in  order  to  apply  the  method,  the  net  profit 
indicators related to such functions may still not be automatically comparable 
where,  for  instance,  the  enterprises  concerned  carry  on  those  functions  in 
different economic sectors or markets with different levels of profitability. 
When the comparable uncontrolled transactions being used are those of an 
independent enterprise, a high degree of similarity is required in a number 
of  aspects  of  the  associated  enterprise  and  the  independent  enterprise 
involved  in  the  transactions  in  order  for  the  controlled  transactions  to  be 
comparable; there are various factors other than products and functions that 
can significantly influence net profit indicators.

2.76.  The  use  of  net  profit  indicators  can  potentially  introduce  a  greater 
element of volatility into the determination of transfer prices for two reasons. 
First, net profit indicators can be influenced by some factors that do not have 
an  effect  (or  have  a  less  substantial  or  direct  effect)  on  gross  margins  and 
prices,  because  of  the  potential  for  variation  of  operating  expenses  across 
enterprises. Second, net profit indicators can be influenced by some of the 
same factors, such as competitive position, that can influence price and gross 
margins,  but  the  effect  of  these  factors  may  not  be  as  readily  eliminated. 
In  the  traditional  transaction  methods,  the  effect  of  these  factors  may  be 
eliminated  as  a  natural  consequence  of  insisting  upon