ure 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 225

makes a resolution of the case still possible by submitting one or more issues 
on which the competent authorities cannot reach an agreement to arbitration.

4.178. 
In the 2008 update to the OECD Model Tax Convention, Article 25 
was supplemented with a new paragraph 5 which provides that, in the cases 
where the competent authorities are unable to reach an agreement within two 
years, the unresolved issues will, at the request of the person who presented 
the  case,  be  solved  through  an  arbitration  process.  This  extension  of  the 
mutual  agreement  procedure  ensures  that  where  the  competent  authorities 
cannot reach an agreement on one or more issues that prevent the resolution 
of a case, a resolution of the case will still be possible by submitting those 
issues to arbitration. Arbitration under paragraph 5 of Article 25 is an integral 
part of the mutual agreement procedure and does not constitute an alternative 
route to solving tax treaty disputes between States. Paragraphs 63-85 of the 
Commentary on Article 25 provide guidance on the arbitration phase of the 
mutual agreement procedure.

4.179.  The  existence  of  an  arbitration  clause  similar  to  paragraph  5  of 
Article 25 in a particular bilateral treaty should make the mutual agreement 
procedure  itself  more  effective  even  in  cases  where  resort  to  arbitration 
is  not  necessary.  The  very  existence  of  this  possibility  should  encourage 
greater use of the mutual agreement procedure since both governments and 
taxpayers will know at the outset that the time and effort put into the mutual 
agreement procedure will be likely to produce a satisfactory result. Further, 
governments  will  have  an  incentive  to  ensure  that  the  mutual  agreement 
procedure is conducted efficiently in order to avoid the necessity of subsequent 
supplemental procedures.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION – 227

Chapter V 

Documentation

A. Introduction

This  chapter  provides  guidance  for  tax  administrations  to  take 
5.1. 
into account in developing rules and/or procedures on documentation to be 
obtained  from  taxpayers  in  connection  with  a  transfer  pricing  enquiry  or 
risk assessment. It also provides guidance to assist taxpayers in identifying 
documentation that would be most helpful in showing that their transactions 
satisfy  the  arm’s  length  principle  and  hence  in  resolving  transfer  pricing 
issues and facilitating tax examinations.

5.2.  When  Chapter  V  of  these  Guidelines  was  adopted  in  1995,  tax 
administrations and taxpayers had less experience in creating and using transfer 
pricing documentation. The previous language in Chapter V of the Guidelines 
put an emphasis on the need for reasonableness in the documentation process 
from  the  perspective  of  both  taxpayers  and  tax  administrations,  as  well  as 
on  the  desire  for  a  greater  level  of  co-operation  between  tax  administrations 
and taxpayers in addressing documentation issues in order to avoid excessive 
documentation  compliance  burdens  while  at  the  same  time  providing  for 
adequate information to apply the arm’s length principle reliably. The previous 
language of Chapter V did not provide for a list of documents to be included in 
a transfer pricing documentation package nor did it provide clear guidance with 
respect to the link between the process for documenting transfer pricing, the 
administration of penalties and the burden of proof.

Since  then,  many  jurisdictions  have  adopted  transfer  pricing 
5.3. 
documentation rules and the proliferation of these requirements, combined 
with a sharp increase in the volume and complexity of international intra-
group  trade  and  the  heightened  scrutiny  of  transfer  pricing  issues  by  tax 
administrations, has resulted in a significant increase in compliance costs for 
taxpayers. Nevertheless tax administrations have often found transfer pricing 
documentation to be less than fully informative and not adequate for their tax 
enforcement and risk assessment needs.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
228 – CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION

5.4. 
The following discussion identifies three objectives of transfer pricing 
documentation rules. The discussion also provides guidance for the development 
of  such  rules  so  that  transfer  pricing  compliance  is  more  straightforward 
and  more  consistent  among  jurisdictions,  while  at  the  same  time  providing 
tax  administrations  with  more  focused  and  useful  information  for  transfer 
pricing  risk  assessments  and  audits.  An  important  overarching  consideration 
in  developing  such  rules  is  to  balance  the  usefulness  of  the  data  to  tax 
administrations for transfer pricing risk assessment and other purposes with any 
increas