rises or any such divergences may be managed in 
ways facilitated by the control relationship and not solely or mainly through 
contractual agreements. It is, therefore, particularly important in considering 
the  commercial  or  financial  relations  between  associated  enterprises  to 
examine whether the arrangements reflected in the actual conduct of the parties 
substantially  conform  to  the  terms  of  any  written  contract,  or  whether  the 
associated enterprises’ actual conduct indicates that the contractual terms have 
not been followed, do not reflect a complete picture of the transactions, have 
been  incorrectly  characterised  or  labelled  by  the  enterprises,  or  are  a  sham. 
Where conduct is not fully consistent with economically significant contractual 
terms,  further  analysis  is  required  to  identify  the  actual  transaction.  Where 
there are material differences between contractual terms and the conduct of 
the  associated  enterprises  in  their  relations  with  one  another,  the  functions 
they actually perform, the assets they actually use, and the risks they actually 
assume, considered in the context of the contractual terms, should ultimately 
determine the factual substance and accurately delineate the actual transaction.

1.47.  Where there is doubt as to what transaction was agreed between the 
associated  enterprises,  it  is  necessary  to  take  into  account  all  the  relevant 
evidence from the economically relevant characteristics of the transaction. 
In doing so one must bear in mind that the terms of the transaction between 
the enterprises may change over time. Where there has been a change in the 
terms  of  a  transaction,  the  circumstances  surrounding  the  change  should 
be  examined  to  determine  whether  the  change  indicates  that  the  original 
transaction has been replaced through a new transaction with effect from the 
date of the change, or whether the change reflects the intentions of the parties 
in  the  original  transaction.  Particular  care  should  be  exercised  where  it 
appears that any changes may have been triggered by knowledge of emerging 
outcomes from the transaction. Changes made in the purported assumption 
of a risk when risk outcomes are known do not involve an assumption of risk 
since there is no longer any risk, as discussed in paragraph 1.78.

1.48.  The following example illustrates the concept of differences between 
written  contractual  terms  and  conduct  of  the  parties,  with  the  result  that 
the  actual  conduct  of  the  parties  delineates  the  transaction.  Company  S  is 
a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  Company  P.  The  parties  have  entered  into  a 
written contract pursuant to which Company P licenses intellectual property to 
Company S for use in Company S’s business; Company S agrees to compensate 
Company  P  for  the  licence  with  a  royalty.  Evidence  provided  by  other 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 45

economically relevant characteristics, and in particular the functions performed, 
establishes that Company P performs negotiations with third-party customers 
to achieve sales for Company S, provides regular technical services support to 
Company S so that Company S can deliver contracted sales to its customers, 
and regularly provides staff to enable Company S to fulfil customer contracts. 
A  majority  of  customers  insist  on  including  Company  P  as  joint  contracting 
party along with Company S, although fee income under the contract is payable 
to Company S. The analysis of the commercial or financial relations indicates 
that Company S is not capable of providing the contracted services to customers 
without  significant  support  from  Company  P,  and  is  not  developing  its  own 
capability. Under the contract, Company P has given a licence to Company S, 
but  in  fact  controls  the  business  risk  and  output  of  Company  S  such  that  it 
has not transferred risk and function consistent with a licensing arrangement, 
and acts not as the licensor but the principal. The identification of the actual 
transaction between Company P and Company S should not be defined solely 
by the terms of the written contract. Instead, the actual transaction should be 
determined from the conduct of the parties, leading to the conclusion that the 
actual functions performed, assets used, and risks assumed by the parties are not 
consistent with the written licence agreement.

1.49.  Where  no  written  terms  exist,  the  actual  transaction  would  need 
to be deduced from the evidence of actual conduct provided by identifying 
the  economically  relevant  characteristics  of  the  transaction.  In  some 
circumstances the actual outcome of commercial or financial relations may 
not have been identified as a transaction by the MNE, but nevertheless may 
result in a transfer of material value, the terms of which w