s, the 
ability to influence margins may be limited. The credit terms achieved from 
managing the relationship with the oil suppliers fund working capital and are 
crucial to the distributor’s margin. The impact of the risk on cost of capital is, 
therefore, significant in the context of how value is created for the distribution 
function.

1.75. 
In the second situation, a multinational toy retailer buys a wide range 
of products from a number of third-party manufacturers. Most of its sales are 
concentrated in the last two months of the calendar year, and a significant 
risk relates to the strategic direction of the buying function, and in making 
the  right  bets  on  trends  and  determining  the  products  that  will  sell  and  in 
what volumes. Trends and the demand for products can vary across markets, 
and so expertise is needed to evaluate the right bets in the local market. The 
effect of the buying risk can be magnified if the retailer negotiates a period of 
exclusivity for a particular product with the third-party manufacturer.

1.76.  Control over a specific risk in a transaction focusses on the decision-
making  of  the  parties  to  the  transaction  in  relation  to  the  specific  risk 
arising  from  the  transaction.  This  is  not  to  say,  however,  that  in  an  MNE 
group other parties may not be involved in setting general policies that are 
relevant for the assumption and control of the specific risks identified in a 
transaction, without such policy-setting itself representing decision making. 
The board and executive committees of the group, for example, may set the 
level of risk the group as a whole is prepared to accept in order to achieve 
commercial objectives, and to establish the control framework for managing 
and reporting risk in its operations. Line management in business segments, 
operational entities, and functional departments may identify and assess risk 
against the commercial opportunities, and put in place appropriate controls 
and processes to address risk and influence the risk outcomes arising from 
day-to-day  operations.  The  opportunities  pursued  by  operational  entities 
require the ongoing management of the risk that the resources allocated to the 
opportunity will deliver the anticipated return. For example, finished product 
inventory risk in a supply transaction between two associated enterprises may 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 57

be  controlled  by  the  party  with  the  capability  to  determine  the  production 
volumes  together  with  the  performance  of  that  decision-making.  The  way 
that  inventory  risk  in  the  transaction  between  two  associated  enterprises 
is addressed may be subject to policy-setting elsewhere in the MNE group 
about overall levels of working capital tied up in inventory, or co-ordination 
of  appropriate  minimum  stocking  levels  across  markets  to  meet  strategic 
objectives. This wider policy-setting however cannot be regarded as decisions 
to  take  on,  lay  off,  decline,  or  mitigate  the  specific  inventory  risk  in  the 
example of the product supply transaction in this paragraph.

D.1.2.1.2. Step 2: Contractual assumption of risk

1.77. 
The  identity  of  the  party  or  parties  assuming  risks  may  be  set  out 
in  written  contracts  between  the  parties  to  a  transaction  involving  these 
risks.  A  written  contract  typically  sets  out  an  intended  assumption  of  risk 
by  the  parties.  Some  risks  may  be  explicitly  assumed  in  the  contractual 
arrangements. For example, a distributor might contractually assume accounts 
receivable risk, inventory risk, and credit risks associated with the distributor’s 
sales  to  unrelated  customers.  Other  risks  might  be  implicitly  assumed.  For 
example, contractual arrangements that provide non-contingent remuneration 
for one of the parties implicitly allocate the outcome of some risks, including 
unanticipated profits or losses, to the other party.

1.78.  A contractual assumption of risk constitutes an ex ante agreement to 
bear some or all of the potential costs associated with the ex post materialisation 
of downside outcomes of risk in return for some or all of the potential benefit 
associated with the ex post materialisation of positive outcomes. Importantly, 
ex  ante  contractual  assumption  of  risk  should  provide  clear  evidence  of  a 
commitment to assume risk prior to the materialisation of risk outcomes. Such 
evidence is a very important part of the tax administration’s transfer pricing 
analysis of risks in commercial or financial relations, since, in practice, an audit 
performed by the tax administration may occur years after the making of such 
up-front decisions by the associated enterprises and when outcomes are known. 
The purported assumption of risk by associated enterprises when risk outcomes 
are certain is by definition not an 