ing tax liabilities of associated enterprises is authorised under 
Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax Convention (see paragraph 2 of the 
Commentary on Article 9); and

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

32 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

•  A  determination  of  the  profits  which  would  have  accrued  at  arm’s 
length,  in  order  to  determine  the  quantum  of  any  re-writing  of 
accounts.

1.8. 
There  are  several  reasons  why  OECD  member  countries  and  other 
jurisdictions have adopted the arm’s length principle. A major reason is that the 
arm’s length principle provides broad parity of tax treatment for members of 
MNE groups and independent enterprises. Because the arm’s length principle 
puts associated and independent enterprises on a more equal footing for tax 
purposes, it avoids the creation of tax advantages or disadvantages that would 
otherwise distort the relative competitive positions of either type of entity. In so 
removing these tax considerations from economic decisions, the arm’s length 
principle promotes the growth of international trade and investment.

1.9. 
The arm’s length principle has also been found to work effectively in 
the vast majority of cases. For example, there are many cases involving the 
purchase and sale of commodities and the lending of money where an arm’s 
length price may readily be found in a comparable transaction undertaken by 
comparable independent enterprises under comparable circumstances. There 
are also many cases where a relevant comparison of transactions can be made 
at the level of financial indicators such as mark-up on costs, gross margin, or 
net profit indicators. Nevertheless, there are some significant cases in which 
the arm’s length principle is difficult and complicated to apply, for example, 
in  MNE  groups  dealing  in  the  integrated  production  of  highly  specialised 
goods, in unique intangibles, and/or in the provision of specialised services. 
Solutions  exist  to  deal  with  such  difficult  cases,  including  the  use  of  the 
transactional  profit  split  method  described  in  Chapter  II,  Part  III  of  these 
Guidelines in those situations where it is the most appropriate method in the 
circumstances of the case.

1.10.  The arm’s length principle is viewed by some as inherently flawed 
because  the  separate  entity  approach  may  not  always  account  for  the 
economies of scale and interrelation of diverse activities created by integrated 
businesses.  There  are,  however,  no  widely  accepted  objective  criteria  for 
allocating between associated enterprises the economies of scale or benefits 
of  integration  resulting  from  group  membership.  The  issue  of  possible 
alternatives to the arm’s length principle is discussed in Section C below.

1.11.  A  practical  difficulty  in  applying  the  arm’s  length  principle  is  that 
associated enterprises may engage in transactions that independent enterprises 
would  not  undertake.  Such  transactions  may  not  necessarily  be  motivated 
by  tax  avoidance  but  may  occur  because  in  transacting  business  with  each 
other, members of an MNE group face different commercial circumstances 
than would independent enterprises. Where independent enterprises seldom 
undertake transactions of the type entered into by associated enterprises, the 
arm’s length principle is difficult to apply because there is little or no direct 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 33

evidence  of  what  conditions  would  have  been  established  by  independent 
enterprises.  The  mere  fact  that  a  transaction  may  not  be  found  between 
independent parties does not of itself mean that it is not arm’s length.

1.12. 
In  certain  cases,  the  arm’s  length  principle  may  result  in  an 
administrative  burden  for  both  the  taxpayer  and  the  tax  administrations  of 
evaluating significant numbers and types of cross-border transactions. Although 
associated  enterprises  normally  establish  the  conditions  for  a  transaction  at 
the  time  it  is  undertaken,  at  some  point  the  enterprises  may  be  required  to 
demonstrate  that  these  are  consistent  with  the  arm’s  length  principle.  (See 
discussion of timing and compliance issues in Sections B and C of Chapter III 
and at Chapter V on Documentation). The tax administration may also have to 
engage in this verification process perhaps some years after the transactions have 
taken place. The tax administration would review any supporting documentation 
prepared  by  the  taxpayer  to  show  that  its  transactions  are  consistent  with  the 
arm’s length principle, and may also need to gather information about comparable 
uncontrolled transactions, the market conditions at the time the transactions took 
place, etc., for numerous and varied transactions. Such an undertaking usually 
becomes more difficult with the