  the 
intangibles in question (e.g. a sale of the intangible or a perpetual, exclusive 
licence of the intangible) or only limited rights (e.g. a licence or similar transfer 
of  limited  rights  to  use  an  intangible  which  may  be  subject  to  geographical 
restrictions, limited duration, or restrictions with respect to the right to use, 
exploit,  reproduce,  further  transfer  or  further  develop).  The  principles  of 
Chapters  I-III  apply  to  transactions  involving  the  transfer  of  intangibles  or 
rights  in  intangibles.  Supplemental  guidance  regarding  the  determination  of 
arm’s length conditions for such transactions is also contained in Sections D.1, 
D.2 and D.3 of this chapter.
6.89. 
In  transactions  involving  the  transfer  of  intangibles  or  rights  in 
intangibles,  it  is  essential  to  identify  with  specificity  the  nature  of  the 
intangibles and rights in intangibles that are transferred between associated 
enterprises. Where limitations are imposed on the rights transferred, it is also 
essential to identify the nature of such limitations and the full extent of the 
rights transferred. It should be noted in this regard that the labels applied to 
transactions do not control the transfer pricing analysis. For example, in the 
case of a transfer of the exclusive right to exploit a patent in Country X, the 
taxpayer’s decision to characterise the transaction either as a sale of all of the 
Country X patent rights, or as a perpetual exclusive licence of a portion of the 
worldwide patent rights, does not affect the determination of the arm’s length 
price if, in either case, the transaction being priced is a transfer of exclusive 
rights to exploit the patent in Country X over its remaining useful life. Thus, 
the functional analysis should identify the nature of the transferred rights in 
intangibles with specificity.
6.90.  Restrictions imposed in licence and similar agreements on the use of 
an intangible in the further development of new intangibles or new products 
using the intangibles are often of significant importance in a transfer pricing 
analysis.  It  is  therefore  important  in  identifying  the  nature  of  a  transfer  of 
rights  in  intangibles  to  consider  whether  the  transferee  receives  the  right 
to  use  the  transferred  intangible  for  the  purpose  of  further  research  and 
development. In transactions between independent enterprises, arrangements 
are  observed  where  the  transferor/licensor  retains  the  full  right  to  any 
enhancements  of  the  licensed  intangible  that  may  be  developed  during  the 
term  of  the  licence.  Transactions  between  independent  enterprises  are  also 
observed where the transferee/licensee retains the right to any enhancements 
it may develop, either for the term of its licence or in perpetuity. The nature 
of  any  limitations  on  further  development  of  transferred  intangibles,  or  on 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

276 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

the ability of the transferee and the transferor to derive an economic benefit 
from  such  enhancements,  can  affect  the  value  of  the  rights  transferred  and 
the comparability of two transactions involving otherwise identical or closely 
comparable intangibles. Such limitations must be evaluated in light of both 
the written terms of agreements and the actual conduct of the affected parties.

6.91.  The provisions of Section D.1.1 of Chapter I apply in identifying the 
specific  nature  of  a  transaction  involving  a  transfer  of  intangibles  or  rights 
in intangibles, in identifying the nature of any intangibles transferred, and in 
identifying any limitations imposed by the terms of the transfer on the use of 
those  intangibles.  For  example,  a  written  specification  that  a  licence  is  non-
exclusive or of limited duration need not be respected by the tax administration 
if such specification is not consistent with the conduct of the parties. Example 18 
in Annex I to Chapter VI illustrates the provisions of this paragraph.

C.1.2. Transfers of combinations of intangibles

6.92. 
Intangibles (including limited rights in intangibles) may be transferred 
individually or in combination with other intangibles. In considering transactions 
involving transfers of combinations of intangibles, two related issues often 
arise.

6.93.  The  first  of  these  involves  the  nature  and  economic  consequences 
of  interactions  between  different  intangibles.  It  may  be  the  case  that  some 
intangibles  are  more  valuable  in  combination  with  other  intangibles  than 
would be the case if the intangibles were considered separately. It is therefore 
important to identify the nature of the legal and economic interactions between 
intangibles that are transferred in combination.

6.94.  For example, a pharmaceutical product will often have associated with 
it  three  or  more  types  of  intangib