cuted through competent authority MOUs 
could increase the likelihood that safe harbour provisions do not 
result in double taxation or double non-taxation.

•  Bilateral  safe  harbours  could  be  tailored  to  the  economics  of  a 
particular market and circumstances, and thus be compatible with 
the arm’s length principle.

•  Bilateral  safe  harbours  could  be  entered  into  on  a  selective  basis 
with  jurisdictions  having  similar  tax  rates,  thus  minimising  the 
possibility  that  the  safe  harbour  provision  itself  would  create 
opportunities  for  transfer  pricing  manipulation  and  providing  a 
means for limiting the application of the safe harbour to situations 
where transfer pricing risk is quite low.

• 

If  the  relevant  jurisdictions  desire,  bilateral  safe  harbours  could 
initially  be  limited  to  small  taxpayers  and/or  small  transactions 
in order to limit exposures to government tax revenue that might 
otherwise be created by the safe harbour.

•  Safe harbours adopted by means of a competent authority MOU 
could be reviewed and modified from time to time by competent 
authority agreement, thus assuring that the provisions stay up to 
date and reflect developments in the broader economy.

•  For  developing  countries  with  serious  resource  constraints, 
bilateral  MOUs  entered  into  with  a  number  of  treaty  partners 
could provide a means of protecting the local tax base in common 
transfer  pricing  fact  patterns  without  an  inordinate  enforcement 
effort.

The  following  elements  may  be  of  relevance  in  the  negotiation  and 

conclusion of an MOU.

1.  Description  of  and  criteria  to  be  fulfilled  by  the  qualifying 

enterprises. These could include:

a)  A description of the functions required to be performed (or to 
be disallowed) as a condition to application of the safe harbour;

b)  The risks to be assumed by the participating enterprises as a 

condition to application of the safe harbour;

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

496 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER IV: SAMPLE MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING FOR SAFE HARBOURS

c)  The  mix  of  assets  permitted  to  be  used  by  the  participating 
enterprises as a condition of application of the safe harbour;

d)  A  description  of  classes  of  entities  excluded  from  the  safe 

harbour provision (by virtue of size, industry, etc.).

2.  Description of the qualifying transactions covered by the MOU;

3.  Determination of the arm’s length range of tested party compensation;

4.  The years to which the MOU applies;

5.  Statement that the MOU is binding on both of the tax administrations 

involved;

6.  Reporting and monitoring procedures for the MOU;

7.  Documentation and information to be maintained by the participating 

enterprises:

8.  A mechanism for resolving disputes.

Set  forth  below  are  sample  MOUs  for  three  types  of  transactions: 
(i)  performance  of  low  risk  manufacturing  services;  (ii)  performance  of 
low risk distribution services; and (iii) performance of low risk contract 
research and development services.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER IV: SAMPLE MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING FOR SAFE HARBOURS – 497

Sample Memorandum of Understanding on 
Low Risk Manufacturing Services

Preamble

1. 
The Competent Authorities of [State A] and [State B] have reached 
an understanding relating to the arm’s length remuneration applicable to low 
risk manufacturing services performed by a Qualifying Enterprise resident 
in [State A] on behalf of an associated enterprise resident in [State B], and 
by a Qualifying Enterprise resident in [State B] on behalf of an associated 
enterprise resident in [State A] in the circumstances described herein. The 
purpose of this memorandum of understanding is to provide legal certainty 
to Qualifying Enterprises by establishing specific procedures to comply with 
the transfer pricing rules in [State A] and [State B] and to eliminate double 
taxation.

2. 
This memorandum of understanding is entered into under authority 
of  Article  [25]  of  the  [Tax  Treaty]  (the  “Treaty”)  between  [State  A]  and 
[State  B].  It  implements  the  principles  of  Article  [9]  of  the  Treaty  in  the 
circumstances  described  herein.  It  applies  to  taxable  years  of  Qualifying 
Enterprises ending in calendar years [20__] through [20__]. This term will 
be  extended  for  another  five  years  unless  either  State  notifies  the  other, 
in  writing,  of  its  intent  to  terminate  this  memorandum  of  understanding 
on  or  prior  to  December  31  [20__].  Expiration  of  this  memorandum  of 
understanding  will  have  effect  for  taxable  years  of  Qualifying  Enterprises 
ending after the last day of the calendar year in which the application of this 
memorandum of understanding terminates.

For purposes of this memorandum of understanding, an “enterprise” 

3. 
means the enterprise d