 to the particular bilateral 
24. 
MAP APA, there may still be potential problems of confidentiality preventing 
the exchange of that information, either under the terms of the exchange of 
information article(s) of the relevant treaty or under the domestic law of one 
of  the  participating  tax  administrations.  Given  the  wide  range  of  possible 
circumstances  likely  to  be  found  in  multilateral  MAP  APAs,  no  general 
solution to these problems can be prescribed. Rather such issues need to be 
addressed specifically in each of the separate bilateral MAP APAs.

25. 
In  cases  where  information  about  flows  between  other  parties  is 
found to be relevant, some exchange of information problems could possibly 
be  overcome  by  not  relying  on  treaty  information  exchange  provisions, 
but  instead  asking  the  taxpayer  to  assume  responsibility  for  providing 
information to all the affected tax administrations (though procedures would 
still be needed to verify that the same information is in fact provided to all 
tax administrations). Finally, in some cases the mutual agreement articles of 
the relevant treaties may not provide an adequate basis for such multilateral 
consideration and discussion, although the mutual agreement article of the 
OECD  Model  Tax  Convention  is  designed  to  assist  in  the  elimination  of 
double taxation in a wide variety of circumstances, and therefore would, if 
applicable, appear to provide adequate authority in most situations.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS – 523

26. 
In summary, as discussed in Section A, the desire by the taxpayer for 
certainty is not by itself sufficient to oblige a tax administration to enter into 
a MAP APA where this might be inappropriate. An invitation to participate 
in a multilateral MAP APA would therefore be evaluated in accordance with 
the  usual  criteria  for  determining  whether  a  bilateral  MAP  APA  could  be 
pursued and each proposed bilateral APA would also be separately evaluated. 
A decision would then be taken whether the completion of the negotiations for 
the bilateral MAP APAs that the administration has decided to pursue, would 
best be served by its participation in multilateral negotiations. This evaluation 
will be made on a case-by-case basis.

The development of multilateral MAP APAs is at a relatively early 
27. 
stage, except perhaps in the global trading field. Indeed, where global trading 
is conducted on a fully integrated basis (i.e. the trading and risk management 
of a book of financial products takes place in a number of different locations, 
usually  at  least  three),  a  multilateral,  as  opposed  to  a  bilateral,  APA  has 
become the norm1. It is intended to monitor closely further developments in 
the area of multilateral MAP APAs.

C. Request for MAP APAs

C.1. Introduction

28. 
Although a MAP APA by its nature involves an agreement between 
tax  administrations,  the  process  needs  considerable  involvement  by  the 
taxpayer  or  taxpayers  in  order  to  be  successful.  This  section  looks  at  the 
first  stages  in  this  process,  namely  the  request  for  the  MAP  APA  which 
is  normally  initiated  by  the  taxpayer(s).  (N.B.  Some  tax  administrations 
consider that they should take the initiative and actively encourage taxpayers 
to make requests in appropriate cases, for example following completion of 
an audit or risk assessment analysis.) Once it has been decided that a MAP 
APA  is  indeed  appropriate,  the  primary  responsibility  for  providing  the 
participating tax administrations with sufficient information for them to be 
able to conduct mutual agreement negotiations will inevitably rest with the 
taxpayer(s). Consequently, the taxpayer should submit a detailed proposal for 
review by the relevant tax administration and be prepared to provide further 
information as requested by the tax administration.

1. 

For more details see OECD (1998), The Taxation of Global Trading of Financial 
Instruments, OECD, Paris.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

524 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS

C.2. Preliminary discussions

A  feature  of  many  domestic  procedures  for  the  obtaining  of  a 
29. 
unilateral  APA  is  the  ability  to  have  a  preliminary  meeting  (or  meetings) 
before  a  formal  request  is  made.  Such  a  meeting  (or  meetings)  provides  a 
taxpayer  with  an  opportunity  to  discuss  with  the  tax  administration  the 
suitability  of  an  APA,  the  type  and  extent  of  information  which  may  be 
required  and  the  scope  of  any  analyses  required  for  the  completion  of  a 
successful  APA.  (For  example,  the  extent  of  any  functional  analysis  of 
affiliated enterprises; identification, selection and adjustment of comparables; 
and the need for, and the scope of, market, industry and geographic a