ection E).

C.2. Determining participants

8.14.  Because the concept of mutual benefit is fundamental to a CCA, it 
follows that a party may not be considered a participant if the party does not 
have a reasonable expectation that it will benefit from the objectives of the 
CCA activity itself (and not just from performing part or all of the subject 
activity), for example, from exploiting its interest or rights in the intangibles 
or  tangible  assets,  or  from  the  use  of  the  services  produced  through  the 
CCA.  A  participant  therefore  must  be  assigned  an  interest  or  rights  in  the 
intangibles, tangible assets or services that are the subject of the CCA, and 
have  a  reasonable  expectation  of  being  able  to  benefit  from  that  interest 
or  those  rights.  An  enterprise  that  solely  performs  the  subject  activity,  for 
example performing research functions, but does not receive an interest in 
the output of the CCA, would not be considered a participant in the CCA but 
rather a service provider to the CCA. As such, it should be compensated for 
the services it provides on an arm’s length basis external to the CCA. See 
paragraph 8.18. Similarly, a party would not be a participant in a CCA if it 
is not capable of exploiting the output of the CCA in its own business in any 
manner.

8.15.  A  party  would  also  not  be  a  participant  in  a  CCA  if  it  does  not 
exercise control over the specific risks it assumes under the CCA and does 
not  have  the  financial  capacity  to  assume  these  risks,  as  this  party  would 
not be entitled to a share in the output that is the objective of the CCA based 
on  the  functions  it  actually  performs.  The  general  principles  set  out  in 
Chapter I of these guidelines on the assumption of risks apply to situations 
involving  CCAs.  Each  participant  makes  particular  contributions  to  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS – 343

CCA  objectives,  and  contractually  assumes  certain  risks.  Guidance  under 
Section D.1 of Chapter I on delineating the actual transaction will apply to 
the transfer pricing analysis in relation to these risks. This also means that 
a party assuming risks under a CCA based on an analysis under step 4(i) of 
the framework for analysing risks in paragraph 1.60 (“assumes the risk under 
the CCA”) must control the specific risks it assumes under the CCA and must 
have the financial capacity to assume these risks. In particular, this implies 
that a CCA participant must have (i) the capability to make decisions to take 
on, lay off, or decline the risk-bearing opportunity presented by participating 
in the CCA, and must actually perform that decision-making function and 
(ii)  the  capability  to  make  decisions  on  whether  and  how  to  respond  to 
the  risks  associated  with  the  opportunity,  and  must  actually  perform  that 
decision-making function. While it is not necessary for the party to perform 
day-to-day risk mitigation activities in relation to activities of the CCA, in 
such cases, it must have the capability to determine the objectives of those 
risk  mitigation  activities  to  be  performed  by  another  party,  to  decide  to 
entrust  that  other  party  to  provide  the  risk  mitigation  functions,  to  assess 
whether  the  objectives  are  being  adequately  met,  and,  where  necessary,  to 
decide  to  adapt  or  terminate  the  arrangement,  and  must  actually  perform 
such  assessment  and  decision-making.  In  accordance  with  the  principles 
of  prudent  business  management,  the  extent  of  the  risks  involved  in  the 
arrangement will determine the extent of capability and control required. The 
guidance in paragraphs 6.60 to 6.64 is relevant for assessing whether a party 
providing funding has the functional capability to exercise control over the 
financial risk attached to its contributions to the CCA and whether it actually 
performs these functions. See Examples 4 and 5 in the Annex to this chapter 
for an illustration of this principle.

8.16.  To  the  extent  that  specific  contributions  made  by  participants  to 
a  CCA  are  different  in  nature,  e.g.  the  participants  perform  very  different 
types  of  R&D  activities  or  one  of  the  parties  contributes  property  and 
another  contributes  R&D  activities,  the  guidance  in  paragraph  6.64  is 
equally applicable. This means that the higher the development risk attached 
to  the  development  activities  performed  by  the  other  party  and  the  closer 
the  risk  assumed  by  the  first  party  is  related  to  this  development  risk,  the 
more the first party will need to have the capability to assess the progress 
of the development of the intangible and the consequences of this progress 
for  achieving  its  expected  benefits,  and  the  more  closely  this  party  may 
need to link its actual decisio