 a particular case, exploitation of intangibles 
can account for either a large or small part of the MNE’s value creation. It 
should be emphasised that not all intangibles deserve compensation separate 
from the required payment for goods or services in all circumstances, and 
not  all  intangibles  give  rise  to  premium  returns  in  all  circumstances.  For 
example,  consider  a  situation  in  which  an  enterprise  performs  a  service 
using  non-unique  know-how,  where  other  comparable  service  providers 
have comparable know-how. In that case, even though know-how constitutes 
an  intangible,  it  may  be  determined  under  the  facts  and  circumstances 
that  the  know-how  does  not  justify  allocating  a  premium  return  to  the 
enterprise, over and above normal returns earned by comparable independent 
providers  of  similar  services  that  use  comparable  non-unique  know-how. 
See Section D.1.3 of Chapter I. See also paragraph  6.17 for a definition of 
“unique” intangibles.

6.11.  Care should be taken in determining whether or when an intangible 
exists and whether an intangible has been used or transferred. For example, not 
all research and development expenditures produce or enhance an intangible, 
and not all marketing activities result in the creation or enhancement of an 
intangible.

6.12. 
In a transfer pricing analysis of a matter involving intangibles, it is 
important to identify the relevant intangibles with specificity. The functional 
analysis should identify the relevant intangibles at issue, the manner in which 
they contribute to the creation of value in the transactions under review, the 
important functions performed and specific risks assumed in connection with 
the development, enhancement, maintenance, protection and exploitation of 
the intangibles and the manner in which they interact with other intangibles, 
with tangible assets and with business operations to create value. While it 
may be appropriate to aggregate intangibles for the purpose of determining 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 249

arm’s length conditions for the use or transfer of the intangibles in certain 
cases, it is not sufficient to suggest that vaguely specified or undifferentiated 
intangibles  have  an  effect  on  arm’s  length  prices  or  other  conditions.  A 
thorough  functional  analysis,  including  an  analysis  of  the  importance  of 
identified relevant intangibles in the MNE’s global business, should support 
the determination of arm’s length conditions.

A.2. Relevance of this chapter for other tax purposes

6.13.  The guidance contained in this chapter is intended to address transfer 
pricing  matters  exclusively.  It  is  not  intended  to  have  relevance  for  other 
tax  purposes.  For  example,  the  Commentary  on  Article  12  of  the  OECD 
Model  Tax  Convention  contains  a  detailed  discussion  of  the  definition  of 
royalties under that Article (paragraphs 8 to 19). The Article 12 definition of 
“royalties” is not intended to provide any guidance on whether, and if so at 
what price, the use or transfer of intangibles would be remunerated between 
independent parties. It is therefore not relevant for transfer pricing purposes. 
Moreover,  the  manner  in  which  a  transaction  is  characterised  for  transfer 
pricing  purposes  has  no  relevance  to  the  question  of  whether  a  particular 
payment constitutes a royalty or may be subjected to withholding tax under 
Article 12. The concept of intangibles for transfer pricing purposes and the 
definition  of  royalties  for  purposes  of  Article  12  of  the  OECD  Model  Tax 
Convention are two different notions that do not need to be aligned. It may 
occur that a payment made between associated enterprises may be regarded 
as not constituting a royalty for purposes of Article 12, and nevertheless be 
treated for transfer pricing purposes as a payment to which the principles of 
this chapter may apply. Examples could include certain payments related to 
goodwill or ongoing concern value. It may also occur that a payment properly 
treated as a royalty under Article 12 of a relevant Treaty may not be made 
in remuneration for intangibles for purposes of this chapter. Examples could 
include certain payments for technical services. Similarly, the guidance in 
this chapter is not intended to have relevance for customs purposes.

6.14.  The  guidance  in  this  chapter  is  also  not  relevant  to  recognition  of 
income, capitalisation of intangible development costs, amortisation, or similar 
matters. Thus, for example, a jurisdiction may choose not to impose tax on 
the transfer of particular types of intangibles under specified circumstances. 
Similarly,  a  jurisdiction  may  not  permit  amortisation  of  the  cost  of  certain 
acquired  items  that  would  be  considered  intangibles  under  the  definitions 
in this chapter and whose transfer may be