  If  the  taxpayer  accepts  an 
arrangement  that  over-allocates  income  to  the  jurisdiction  making  the  APA 
in order to avoid lengthy and expensive transfer pricing enquiries or excessive 
penalties, the administrative burden shifts from the jurisdiction providing the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

220 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

APA to other tax jurisdictions. Taxpayers should not feel compelled to enter 
into APAs for these reasons.

4.159.  Another problem with a unilateral APA is the issue of corresponding 
adjustments.  The  flexibility  of  an  APA  may  lead  the  taxpayer  and  the 
associated  party  to  accommodate  their  pricing  to  the  range  of  permissible 
pricing  in  the  APA.  In  a  unilateral  APA,  it  is  critical  that  this  flexibility 
preserve  the  arm’s  length  principle  since  a  foreign  competent  authority  is 
not likely to allow a corresponding adjustment arising out of an APA that is 
inconsistent, in its view, with the arm’s length principle.

4.160.  Another  possible  disadvantage  would  arise  if  an  APA  involved  an 
unreliable prediction on changing market conditions without adequate critical 
assumptions, as discussed above. To avoid the risk of double taxation, it is 
necessary for an APA programme to remain flexible, because a static APA 
may not satisfactorily reflect arm’s length conditions.

4.161.  An APA programme may initially place a strain on transfer pricing 
audit resources, as tax administrations will generally have to divert resources 
earmarked  for  other  purposes  (e.g.  examination,  advising,  litigation,  etc.) 
to  the  APA  programme.  Demands  may  be  made  on  the  resources  of  a  tax 
administration  by  taxpayers  seeking  the  earliest  possible  conclusion  to  an 
APA request, keeping in mind their business objectives and time scales, and 
the APA programme as a whole will tend to be led by the demands of the 
business  community.  These  demands  may  not  coincide  with  the  resource 
planning  of  the  tax  administrations,  thereby  making  it  difficult  to  process 
efficiently  both  the  APAs  and  other  equally  important  work.  Renewing 
an  APA,  however,  is  likely  to  be  less  time-consuming  than  the  process  of 
initiating an APA. The renewal process may focus on updating and adjusting 
facts,  business  and  economic  criteria,  and  computations.  In  the  case  of 
bilateral  arrangements,  the  agreement  of  the  competent  authorities  of  both 
Contracting States is to be obtained on the renewal of an APA to avoid double 
taxation (or non-taxation).

4.162.  Another potential disadvantage could occur where one tax administration 
has  undertaken  a  number  of  bilateral  APAs  which  involve  only  certain  of 
the associated enterprises within an MNE group. A tendency may exist to 
harmonise  the  basis  for  concluding  later  APAs  in  a  way  similar  to  those 
previously concluded without sufficient regard being had to the conditions 
operating in other markets. Care should therefore be taken with interpreting 
the results of previously concluded APAs as being representative across all 
markets.

4.163.  Concerns have also been expressed that, because of the nature of the 
APA  procedure,  it  will  interest  taxpayers  with  a  good  voluntary  compliance 
history. Experience in some jurisdictions has shown that, most often, taxpayers 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 221

which would be interested in APAs are very large corporations which would 
be  audited  on  a  regular  basis,  with  their  pricing  methodology  then  being 
examined in any event. The difference in the examination conducted of their 
transfer pricing would be one of timing rather than extent. As well, it has not 
been demonstrated that APAs will be of interest solely or principally to such 
taxpayers.  Indeed,  there  are  some  early  indications  that  taxpayers,  having 
experienced difficulty with tax administrations on transfer pricing issues and 
not wishing these difficulties to continue, are often interested in applying for 
an APA. There is then a serious danger of audit resources and expertise being 
diverted to these taxpayers and away from the investigation of less compliant 
taxpayers,  where  these  resources  could  be  better  deployed  in  reducing  the 
risk  of  losing  tax  revenue.  The  balance  of  compliance  resources  may  be 
particularly difficult to achieve since an APA programme tends to require highly 
experienced and often specialised staff. Requests for APAs may be concentrated 
in particular areas or sectors, e.g. global trading, and this can overstretch the 
specialist  resources  already  allocated  to  those  areas  by  the  authorities.  Tax 
administrations require time to train experts in specialist fields in order to meet 
unforeseeable demands from taxpayers for APAs in those area