ive at a single figure (e.g. price or margin) that is the most reliable to 
establish whether the conditions of a transaction are arm’s length. However, 
because  transfer  pricing  is  not  an  exact  science,  there  will  also  be  many 
occasions when the application of the most appropriate method or methods 
produces  a  range  of  figures  all  of  which  are  relatively  equally  reliable.  In 
these cases, differences in the figures that comprise the range may be caused 
by the fact that in general the application of the arm’s length principle only 
produces an approximation of conditions that would have been established 
between independent enterprises. It is also possible that the different points in 
a range represent the fact that independent enterprises engaged in comparable 
transactions under comparable circumstances may not establish exactly the 
same price for the transaction.

3.56. 
In some cases, not all comparable transactions examined will have 
a relatively equal degree of comparability. Where it is possible to determine 
that  some  uncontrolled  transactions  have  a  lesser  degree  of  comparability 
than others, they should be eliminated.

3.57. 
It  may  also  be  the  case  that,  while  every  effort  has  been  made  to 
exclude points that have a lesser degree of comparability, what is arrived at is a 
range of figures for which it is considered, given the process used for selecting 
comparables  and  limitations  in  information  available  on  comparables,  that 
some comparability defects remain that cannot be identified and/or quantified, 
and are therefore not adjusted. In such cases, if the range includes a sizeable 
number of observations, statistical tools that take account of central tendency 
to  narrow  the  range  (e.g.  the  interquartile  range  or  other  percentiles)  might 
help to enhance the reliability of the analysis.

3.58.  A  range  of  figures  may  also  result  when  more  than  one  method  is 
applied to evaluate a controlled transaction. For example, two methods that 
attain  similar  degrees  of  comparability  may  be  used  to  evaluate  the  arm’s 
length  character  of  a  controlled  transaction.  Each  method  may  produce 
an  outcome  or  a  range  of  outcomes  that  differs  from  the  other  because 
of  differences  in  the  nature  of  the  methods  and  the  data,  relevant  to  the 
application  of  a  particular  method,  used.  Nevertheless,  each  separate  range 
potentially could be used to define an acceptable range of arm’s length figures. 
Data  from  these  ranges  could  be  useful  for  purposes  of  more  accurately 
defining  the  arm’s  length  range,  for  example  when  the  ranges  overlap,  or 
for reconsidering the accuracy of the methods used when the ranges do not 
overlap.  No  general  rule  may  be  stated  with  respect  to  the  use  of  ranges 
derived from the application of multiple methods because the conclusions to 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

166 – CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS

be drawn from their use will depend on the relative reliability of the methods 
employed to determine the ranges and the quality of the information used in 
applying the different methods.

3.59.  Where the application of the most appropriate method (or, in relevant 
circumstances,  of  more  than  one  method,  see  paragraph  2.12),  produces  a 
range  of  figures,  a  substantial  deviation  among  points  in  that  range  may 
indicate  that  the  data  used  in  establishing  some  of  the  points  may  not  be 
as reliable as the data used to establish the other points in the range or that 
the deviation may result from features of the comparable data that require 
adjustments. In such cases, further analysis of those points may be necessary 
to evaluate their suitability for inclusion in any arm’s length range.

A.7.2. Selecting the most appropriate point in the range

If the relevant condition of the controlled  transaction  (e.g.  price or 

3.60. 
margin) is within the arm’s length range, no adjustment should be made.

3.61. 
If  the  relevant  condition  of  the  controlled  transaction  (e.g.  price  or 
margin) falls outside the arm’s length range asserted by the tax administration, 
the  taxpayer  should  have  the  opportunity  to  present  arguments  that  the 
conditions of the controlled transaction satisfy the arm’s length principle, and 
that the result falls within the arm’s length range (i.e. that the arm’s length 
range  is  different  from  the  one  asserted  by  the  tax  administration).  If  the 
taxpayer is unable to establish this fact, the tax administration must determine 
the point within the arm’s length range to which it will adjust the condition of 
the controlled transaction.

3.62. 
In  determining  this  point,  where  the  range  comprises  results  of 
relatively equal and high reliability, it could be argued that any point in the 
range satisfies the arm’s