xt of a simultaneous examination. In this situation, that tax administration 
should inform in advance its treaty partners that it is subject to this requirement 
before the simultaneous examination is begun.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 201

4.87.  Simultaneous  tax  examinations  may  be  a  useful  instrument  to 
determine the correct tax liability of associated enterprises in cases where, 
for example, costs are shared or charged and profits are allocated between 
taxpayers in different taxing jurisdictions or more generally where transfer 
pricing  issues  are  involved.  Simultaneous  tax  examinations  may  facilitate 
an  exchange  of  information  on  multinational  business  practices,  complex 
transactions, cost contribution arrangements, and profit allocation methods 
in special fields such as global trading and innovative financial transactions. 
As a result, tax administrations may acquire a better understanding of and 
insight into the overall activities of an MNE and obtain extended possibilities 
of  comparison  and  checking  international  transactions.  Simultaneous  tax 
examinations may also support the industry-wide exchange of information, 
which  is  aimed  at  developing  knowledge  of  taxpayer  behaviour,  practices 
and trends within an industry, and other information that might be suitable 
beyond the specific cases examined.

4.88.  One  objective  of  simultaneous  tax  examinations  is  to  promote 
compliance  with  transfer  pricing  regulations.  Obtaining  the  necessary 
information  and  determining  the  facts  and  circumstances  about  such 
matters as the transfer pricing conditions of controlled transactions between 
associated enterprises in two or more tax jurisdictions may be difficult for a 
tax administration, especially in cases where the taxpayer in its jurisdiction 
does not co-operate or fails to provide the necessary information in due time. 
The simultaneous tax examination process can help tax administrations to 
establish these facts faster and more effectively and economically.

4.89.  The  process  also  might  allow  for  the  identification  of  potential 
transfer pricing disputes at an early stage, thereby minimising litigation with 
taxpayers.  This  could  happen  when,  based  upon  the  information  obtained 
in  the  course  of  a  simultaneous  tax  examination,  the  participating  tax 
examiners or inspectors have the opportunity to discuss any differences in 
opinion with regard to the transfer pricing conditions which exist between the 
associated enterprises and are able to reconcile these contentions. When such 
a process is undertaken, the tax examiners or inspectors concerned should, 
as  far  as  possible,  arrive  at  concurring  statements  as  to  the  determination 
and evaluation of the facts and circumstances of the controlled transactions 
between  the  associated  enterprises,  stating  any  disagreements  about  the 
evaluation of facts, and any differences with respect to the legal treatment of 
the transfer pricing conditions which exist between the associated enterprises. 
Such statements could then serve as a basis for subsequent mutual agreement 
procedures  and  perhaps  obviate  the  problems  caused  by  one  jurisdiction 
examining  the  affairs  of  a  taxpayer  long  after  the  treaty  partner  country 
has finally settled the tax liability of the relevant associated enterprise. For 
example,  such  an  approach  could  minimise  mutual  agreement  procedure 
difficulties due to the lack of relevant information.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

202 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

4.90. 
In  some  cases  the  simultaneous  tax  examination  procedure  may 
allow  the  participating  tax  administrations  to  reach  an  agreement  on  the 
transfer pricing conditions of a controlled transaction between the associated 
enterprises.  Where  an  agreement  is  reached,  corresponding  adjustments 
may  be  made  at  an  early  stage,  thus  avoiding  time-limit  impediments  and 
economic double taxation to the extent possible. In addition, if the agreement 
about  the  associated  enterprises’  transfer  pricing  is  reached  with  the 
taxpayers’ consent, time-consuming and expensive litigation may be avoided.

4.91.  Even if no agreement between the tax administrations can be reached 
in the course of a simultaneous tax examination with respect to the associated 
enterprises’ transfer pricing, the OECD Model Agreement envisions that either 
associated  enterprise  may  be  able  to  present  a  request  for  the  opening  of  a 
mutual agreement procedure to avoid economic double taxation at an earlier 
stage than it would have if there were no simultaneous tax examination. If this 
is the case, then simultaneous tax examinations may significantly reduce the 
time span between a tax administration’s adjustments made to a taxpaye