y 
that is resident for tax purposes in the Jurisdiction of the other Competent Authority, that 
an error may have led to incorrect or incomplete information reporting or that there is non-
compliance of a Reporting Entity with the respect to its obligation to file a CbC Report. 

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

68 – ANNEx Iv TO ChAPTER v. COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

The notified Competent Authority will take all appropriate measures available under its 
domestic law to address the errors or non-compliance described in the notice.

SECTION 5
Confidentiality, Data Safeguards and Appropriate Use

1.  All information exchanged is subject to the confidentiality rules and other safeguards 
provided  for  in  the  TIEA,  including  the  provisions  limiting  the  use  of  the  information 
exchanged.

2. 
In  addition  to  the  restrictions  in  paragraph  1,  the  use  of  the  information  will 
be  further  limited  to  the  permissible  uses  described  in  this  paragraph.  In  particular, 
information received by means of the CbC Report will be used for assessing high-level 
transfer  pricing,  base  erosion  and  profit  shifting  related  risks,  and,  where  appropriate, 
for economic and statistical analysis. The information will not be used as a substitute for 
a detailed transfer pricing analysis of individual transactions and prices based on a full 
functional analysis and a full comparability analysis. It is acknowledged that information 
in the CbC Report on its own does not constitute conclusive evidence that transfer prices 
are or are not appropriate and, consequently, transfer pricing adjustments will not be based 
on  the  CbC  Report.  Inappropriate  adjustments  in  contravention  of  this  paragraph  made 
by  local  tax  administrations  will  be  conceded  in  any  competent  authority  proceedings. 
Notwithstanding the above, there is no prohibition on using the CbC Report data as a basis 
for making further enquiries into the MNE’s transfer pricing arrangements or into other tax 
matters in the course of a tax audit and, as a result, appropriate adjustments to the taxable 
income of a Constituent Entity may be made.

3. 
To the extent permitted under applicable law, each Competent Authority will notify 
the  other  Competent  Authority  immediately  regarding  of  any  cases  of  non-compliance 
with the paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Section, including any remedial actions, as well as any 
measures taken in respect of non-compliance with the above-mentioned paragraphs.

SECTION 6
Consultations

1. 
In case an adjustment of the taxable income of a Constituent Entity, as a result of 
further  enquiries  based  on  the  data  in  the  CbC  Report,  leads  to  undesirable  economic 
outcomes, including if such cases arise for a specific business, both Competent Authorities 
shall consult each other and discuss with the aim of resolving the case.

2. 
If any difficulties in the implementation or interpretation of this Agreement arise, 
either  Competent  Authority  may  request  consultations  with  of  the  other  Competent 
Authority to develop appropriate measures to ensure that this Agreement is fulfilled. In 
particular, a Competent Authority shall consult with the other Competent Authority before 
the  first-mentioned  Competent  Authority  determines  that  there  is  a  systemic  failure  to 
exchange CbC Reports with the other Competent Authority.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

ANNEx Iv TO ChAPTER v. COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 69

SECTION 7
Amendments

This Agreement may be amended by consensus by written agreement of the Competent 
Authorities. Unless otherwise agreed upon, such an amendment is effective on the first day 
of the month following the expiration of a period of one month after the date of the last 
signature of such written agreement.

SECTION 8
Term of Agreement

This Agreement will come into effect on […/the date of the later of the notifications 
1. 
provided by each Competent Authority that its Jurisdiction either has the necessary laws in 
place to require Reporting Entities to file a CbC Report].

2.  A Competent Authority may temporarily suspend the exchange of information under 
this Agreement by giving notice in writing to the other Competent Authority that it has 
determined that there is or has been significant non-compliance by the other Competent 
Authority with this Agreement. Before making such a determination, the first-mentioned 
Competent Authority shall consult with the other Competent Authority. For the purposes 
of this paragraph, significant non-compliance means non-compliance with paragraphs 1 
and 2 of Section 5 and paragraph 1 of Section 6 of this Agreement and the provisions of 
the TIEA referred to therein, as well as a failure by the Competent Authority to provide 
timely or adequate information as re