 length principle. Where comparability defects remain 
as  discussed  in  paragraph  3.57,  it  may  be  appropriate  to  use  measures  of 
central tendency to determine this point (for instance the median, the mean or 
weighted averages, etc., depending on the specific characteristics of the data 
set), in order to minimise the risk of error due to unknown or unquantifiable 
remaining comparability defects.

A.7.3. Extreme results: comparability considerations

3.63.  Extreme  results  might  consist  of  losses  or  unusually  high  profits. 
Extreme results can affect the financial indicators that are looked at in the 
chosen method (e.g. the gross margin when applying a resale price, or a net 
profit indicator when applying a transactional net margin method). They can 
also affect other items, e.g. exceptional items which are below the line but 
nonetheless  may  reflect  exceptional  circumstances.  Where  one  or  more  of 
the potential comparables have extreme results, further examination would be 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS – 167

needed to understand the reasons for such extreme results. The reason might 
be a defect in comparability, or exceptional conditions met by an otherwise 
comparable third party. An extreme result may be excluded on the basis that 
a  previously  overlooked  significant  comparability  defect  has  been  brought 
to  light,  not  on  the  sole  basis  that  the  results  arising  from  the  proposed 
“comparable” merely appear to be very different from the results observed in 
other proposed “comparables”.

3.64.  An independent enterprise would not continue loss-generating activities 
unless it had reasonable expectations of future profits. See paragraphs 1.149-
1.151. Simple or low risk functions in particular are not expected to generate 
losses for a long period of time. This does not mean however that loss-making 
transactions  can  never  be  comparable.  In  general,  all  relevant  information 
should be used and there should not be any overriding rule on the inclusion or 
exclusion of loss-making comparables. Indeed, it is the facts and circumstances 
surrounding  the  company  in  question  that  should  determine  its  status  as  a 
comparable, not its financial result.

3.65.  Generally speaking, a loss-making uncontrolled transaction should 
trigger further investigation in order to establish whether or not it can be a 
comparable. Circumstances in which loss-making transactions/ enterprises 
should be excluded from the list of comparables include cases where losses 
do not reflect normal business conditions, and where the losses incurred by 
third parties reflect a level of risks that is not comparable to the one assumed 
by the taxpayer in its controlled transactions. Loss-making comparables that 
satisfy the comparability analysis should not however be rejected on the sole 
basis that they suffer losses.

3.66.  A similar investigation should be undertaken for potential comparables 
returning abnormally large profits relative to other potential comparables.

B. Timing issues in comparability

3.67.  There are timing issues in comparability with respect to the time of 
origin, collection and production of information on comparability factors and 
comparable uncontrolled transactions that are used in a comparability analysis. 
See  paragraphs  5.27  and  5.36  of  Chapter  V  for  indications  with  respect  to 
timing issues in the context of transfer pricing documentation requirements.

B.1.  Timing of origin

3.68. 
In  principle,  information  relating  to  the  conditions  of  comparable 
uncontrolled transactions undertaken or carried out during the same period of 
time as the controlled transaction (“contemporaneous uncontrolled transactions”) 
is expected to be the most reliable information to use in a comparability analysis, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

168 – CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS

because  it  reflects  how  independent  parties  have  behaved  in  an  economic 
environment  that  is  the  same  as  the  economic  environment  of  the  taxpayer’s 
controlled  transaction.  Availability  of  information  on  contemporaneous 
uncontrolled transactions may however be limited in practice, depending on the 
timing of collection.

B.2.  Timing of collection

3.69. 
In some cases, taxpayers establish transfer pricing documentation to 
demonstrate that they have made reasonable efforts to comply with the arm’s 
length principle at the time their intra-group transactions were undertaken, 
i.e. on an ex ante basis (hereinafter “the arm’s length price-setting” approach), 
based on information that was reasonably available to them at that point. Such 
information includes not only information on comparable transactions from 
previous  years,  but  also  information  on  economic  and  market  changes  that 
may have occurred between those previous years and the year of 