 by the parties to the trans-
actions. It is important to note that the indicators are not mutually exclusive 
and on the contrary may often be found together in a single case.

2.127.  At the other end of the spectrum, where the accurate delineation of 
the transaction determines that one party to the transaction performs only 
simple functions, does not assume economically significant risks in relation 
to  the  transaction  and  does  not  otherwise  make  any  contribution  which  is 
unique and valuable, a transactional profit split method typically would not 
be appropriate since a share of profits (which may be impacted by the playing 
out of the economically significant risks) would be unlikely to represent an 
arm’s length outcome for such contributions or risk assumption.

2.128.  A  lack  of  closely  comparable,  uncontrolled  transactions  which 
would  otherwise  be  used  to  benchmark  an  arm’s  length  return  for  the 
party  performing  the  less  complex  functions  should  not  per  se  lead  to  a 
conclusion that the transactional profit split is the most appropriate method. 
Depending on the facts of the case, an appropriate method using uncontrolled 
transactions  that  are  sufficiently  comparable,  but  not  identical  to  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

132 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

controlled  transaction  is  likely  to  be  more  reliable  than  an  inappropriate 
use of the transactional profit split method. See paragraphs 3.38-3.39 for a 
discussion of limitations in available comparables. See also Section C.2.3.

2.129.  It may also be relevant to consider industry practices. For instance, 
if information is available that independent parties do commonly use profit 
splitting  approaches  in  similar  situations,  careful  consideration  should 
be  given  to  whether  the  transactional  profit  split  method  may  be  the  most 
appropriate method for the controlled transactions. Such industry practices 
may  be  a  pointer  to  the  fact  that  each  party  makes  unique  and  valuable 
contributions, and/or that the parties are highly inter-dependent upon each 
other. Conversely, if independent parties engaged in comparable transactions 
are found to make use of other pricing methods, this should also be taken into 
account in determining the most appropriate transfer pricing method.

C.2.2.1.  Unique and valuable contributions by each of the parties to 

the transaction

2.130.  Contributions  (for  instance  functions  performed,  or  assets  used  or 
contributed)  will  be  “unique  and  valuable”  in  cases  where  (i)  they  are  not 
comparable  to  contributions  made  by  uncontrolled  parties  in  comparable 
circumstances,  and  (ii)  they  represent  a  key  source  of  actual  or  potential 
economic benefits in the business operations. The two factors are often linked: 
comparables for such contributions are seldom found because they are a key 
source of economic advantage. It may be the case that in these situations, the 
risks associated with the respective unique and valuable contributions cannot 
be controlled by the other party or parties. This may impact the assumption 
of risk under the accurate delineation of the actual transaction. For example, 
the  developer  and  manufacturer  of  a  key  component  of  a  product  together 
with the developer and manufacturer of another key component that together 
with  the  first  component,  form  the  ready-to-sell  product,  may  both  make 
unique and valuable contributions in terms of functions and intangibles that 
represent a key source of economic benefits. (See also paragraphs 6.50 to 6.58 
and 6.133.) In practice, neither of them may be able to control the development 
risk  in  relation  to  the  product  as  a  whole,  but  instead  they  together  control 
the  development  risks  and  share  in  the  relevant  profits  resulting  from  their 
contributions. The principles of this section are illustrated by Examples 1, 2, 3 
and 4 in Annex II to Chapter II of these Guidelines.

Transactions involving unique and valuable intangibles

2.131.  Where each party to the transaction legally owns unique and valuable 
intangibles  that  are  relevant  to  the  transaction,  it  will  also  be  necessary  to 
consider  whether,  under  the  accurate  delineation  of  the  transaction,  they 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 133

each assume the economically significant risks relating to those intangibles, 
e.g. risks related to development, obsolescence, infringement, product liability 
and exploitation (see paragraphs 6.65 to 6.68).

2.132.  As set out in paragraphs 6.148 to 6.149 and 6.152, in some cases, the 
transactional profit split method may be the most appropriate method for a 
transfer of fully developed intangibles (including rights in intangibles) where 
it  is  not  possible  to  identify  reliable  com