nternational taxation. Such multilateral co-ordination would require the 
inclusion  of  all  major  jurisdictions  where  MNEs  operate.  If  all  the  major 
jurisdictions  failed  to  agree  to  move  to  global  formulary  apportionment, 
MNEs  would  be  faced  with  the  burden  of  complying  with  two  totally 
different  systems.  In  other  words,  for  the  same  set  of  transactions  they 
would be forced to calculate the profits accruing to their members under two 
completely different standards. Such a result would create the potential for 
double taxation (or under-taxation) in every case.

1.25.  There are other significant concerns in addition to the double taxation 
issues discussed above. One such concern is that predetermined formulae are 
arbitrary and disregard market conditions, the particular circumstances of the 
individual enterprises, and management’s own allocation of resources, thus 
producing an allocation of profits that may bear no sound relationship to the 
specific facts surrounding the transaction. More specifically, a formula based 
on a combination of cost, assets, payroll, and sales implicitly imputes a fixed 
rate  of  profit  per  currency  unit  (e.g.  dollar,  euro,  yen)  of  each  component 
to  every  member  of  the  group  and  in  every  tax  jurisdiction,  regardless  of 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 37

differences in functions, assets, risks, and efficiencies and among members 
of the MNE group. Such an approach could potentially assign profits to an 
entity that would incur losses if it were an independent enterprise.

1.26.  Another  issue  for  global  formulary  apportionment  is  dealing 
with  exchange  rate  movements.  Although  exchange  rate  movements  can 
complicate application of the arm’s length principle they do not have the same 
impact  as  for  global  formulary  apportionment;  the  arm’s  length  principle 
is  better  equipped  to  deal  with  the  economic  consequences  of  exchange 
rate  movements  because  it  requires  the  analysis  of  the  specific  facts  and 
circumstances  of  the  taxpayer.  If  the  formula  relies  on  costs,  the  result  of 
applying  a  global  formulary  apportionment  would  be  that  as  a  particular 
currency strengthens in one jurisdiction consistently against another currency 
in which an associated enterprise keeps its accounts, a greater share of the 
profit would be attributed to the enterprise in the first jurisdiction to reflect 
the costs of its payroll nominally increased by the currency fluctuation. Thus, 
under  a  global  formulary  apportionment,  the  exchange  rate  movement  in 
this example would lead to increasing the profits of the associated enterprise 
operating with the stronger currency whereas in the long run a strengthening 
currency makes exports less competitive and leads to a downward pressure 
on profits.

1.27.  Contrary  to  the  assertions  of  its  advocates,  global  formulary 
apportionment  may  in  fact  present  intolerable  compliance  costs  and  data 
requirements because information would have to be gathered about the entire 
MNE group and presented in each jurisdiction on the basis of the currency 
and the book and tax accounting rules of that particular jurisdiction. Thus, 
the  documentation  and  compliance  requirements  for  an  application  of 
global formulary apportionment would generally be more burdensome than 
under the separate entity approach of the arm’s length principle. The costs 
of a global formulary apportionment would be further magnified if not all 
jurisdictions could agree on the components of the formula or on the way the 
components are measured.

1.28.  Difficulties  also  would  arise  in  determining  the  sales  of  each 
member  and  in  the  valuation  of  assets  (e.g.  historic  cost  versus  market 
value),  especially  in  the  valuation  of  intangibles.  These  difficulties  would 
be  compounded  by  the  existence  across  taxing  jurisdictions  of  different 
accounting  standards  and  of  multiple  currencies.  Accounting  standards 
among all jurisdictions would have to be conformed in order to arrive at a 
meaningful measure of profit for the entire MNE group. Of course, some of 
these  difficulties,  for  example  the  valuation  of  assets  and  intangibles,  also 
exist under the arm’s length principle, although significant progress in respect 
of  the  latter  has  been  made,  whereas  no  credible  solutions  have  been  put 
forward under global formulary apportionment.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

38 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

1.29.  Global  formulary  apportionment  would  have  the  effect  of  taxing 
an MNE group on a consolidated basis and therefore abandons the separate 
entity  approach.  As  a  consequence,  global  formulary  apportionment 
cannot, as a practical matter, recognise important geographical