 Before  broadening  the  search  to 
include a larger number of potentially comparable uncontrolled transactions 
based  on  similar  functions  being  undertaken,  thought  should  be  given  to 
whether  such  transactions  are  likely  to  offer  reliable  comparables  for  the 
controlled transaction.

D.1.4. Economic circumstances

1.130.  Arm’s  length  prices  may  vary  across  different  markets  even  for 
transactions  involving  the  same  property  or  services;  therefore,  to  achieve 
comparability  requires  that  the  markets  in  which  the  independent  and 
associated  enterprises  operate  do  not  have  differences  that  have  a  material 
effect on price or that appropriate adjustments can be made. As a first step, 
it  is  essential  to  identify  the  relevant  market  or  markets  taking  account  of 
available substitute goods or services. Economic circumstances that may be 
relevant to determining market comparability include the geographic location; 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

72 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

the  size  of  the  markets;  the  extent  of  competition  in  the  markets  and  the 
relative competitive positions of the buyers and sellers; the availability (risk 
thereof)  of  substitute  goods  and  services;  the  levels  of  supply  and  demand 
in  the  market  as  a  whole  and  in  particular  regions,  if  relevant;  consumer 
purchasing  power;  the  nature  and  extent  of  government  regulation  of  the 
market; costs of production, including the costs of land, labour, and capital; 
transport  costs;  the  level  of  the  market  (e.g.  retail  or  wholesale);  the  date 
and  time  of  transactions;  and  so  forth.  The  facts  and  circumstances  of  the 
particular case will determine whether differences in economic circumstances 
have a material effect on price and whether reasonably accurate adjustments 
can  be  made  to  eliminate  the  effects  of  such  differences.  More  detailed 
guidance on the importance in a comparability analysis of the features of local 
markets, especially local market features that give rise to location savings, is 
provided in Section D.6 of this chapter.

1.131.  The existence of a cycle (e.g. economic, business, or product cycle) is 
one of the economic circumstances that should be identified. See paragraph 3.77 
in relation to the use of multiple year data where there are cycles.

1.132.  The geographic market is another economic circumstance that should 
be identified. The identification of the relevant market is a factual question. 
For a number of industries, large regional markets encompassing more than 
one jurisdiction may prove to be reasonably homogeneous, while for others, 
differences among domestic markets (or even within domestic markets) are 
very significant.

1.133. 
In  cases  where  similar  controlled  transactions  are  carried  out  by  an 
MNE group in several jurisdictions and where the economic circumstances in 
these jurisdictions are in effect reasonably homogeneous, it may be appropriate 
for this MNE group to rely on a comparability analysis that covers multiple 
jurisdictions  to  support  its  transfer  pricing  policy  towards  this  group  of 
jurisdictions.  But  there  are  also  numerous  situations  where  an  MNE  group 
offers significantly different ranges of products or services in each jurisdiction, 
and/or performs significantly different functions in each of these jurisdictions 
(using significantly different assets and assuming significantly different risks), 
and/or where its business strategies and/or economic circumstances are found 
to be significantly different. In these latter situations, the recourse to a multiple-
jurisdictional approach may reduce reliability.

D.1.5. Business strategies

1.134.  Business  strategies  must  also  be  examined  in  delineating  the 
transaction and in determining comparability for transfer pricing purposes. 
Business strategies would take into account many aspects of an enterprise, 
such as innovation and new product development, degree of diversification, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 73

risk aversion, assessment of political changes, input of existing and planned 
labour  laws,  duration  of  arrangements,  and  other  factors  bearing  upon  the 
daily conduct of business. Such business strategies may need to be taken into 
account when determining the comparability of controlled and uncontrolled 
transactions and enterprises.
1.135.  Business strategies also could include market penetration schemes. A 
taxpayer seeking to penetrate a market or to increase its market share might 
temporarily charge a price for its product that is lower than the price charged 
for  otherwise  comparable  products  in  the  same  market.  Furthermore,  a 
taxpayer seeking to enter a new market or expand (or defend) its market share 
might temporarily inc