ntrolled by Company A, Company A should be allocated the 
risk of under-utilisation. This means that the financial consequences related 
to the materialisation of that risk including failure to cover fixed costs, write-
downs, or closure costs should be allocated to Company A.

1.103.  The consequences of risk allocation in Example 3 in paragraph 1.85 
depend  on  analysis  of  functions  under  step  3.  Company  A  does  not  have 
control over the economically significant risks associated with the investment 
in  and  exploitation  of  the  asset,  and  those  risks  should  be  aligned  with 
control  of  those  risks  by  Companies  B  and  C.  The  functional  contribution 
of  Company  A  is  limited  to  providing  financing  for  an  amount  equating 
to  the  cost  of  the  asset  that  enables  the  asset  to  be  created  and  exploited 
by  Companies  B  and  C.  However,  the  functional  analysis  also  provides 
evidence that Company A has no capability and authority to control the risk 
of  investing  in  a  financial  asset.  Company  A  does  not  have  the  capability 
to  make  decisions  to  take  on  or  decline  the  financing  opportunity,  or  the 
capability  to  make  decisions  on  whether  and  how  to  respond  to  the  risks 
associated  with  the  financing  opportunity.  Company  A  does  not  perform 
functions  to  evaluate  the  financing  opportunity,  does  not  consider  the 
appropriate  risk  premium  and  other  issues  to  determine  the  appropriate 
pricing of the financing opportunity, and does not evaluate the appropriate 
protection  of  its  financial  investment.  In  the  circumstances  of  Example  3, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

66 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

Company A would not be entitled to any more than a risk-free return2 as an 
appropriate  measure  of  the  profits  it  is  entitled  to  retain,  since  it  lacks  the 
capability to control the risk associated with investing in a riskier financial 
asset. The risk will be allocated to the enterprise which has control and the 
financial capacity to assume the risk associated with the financial asset. In 
the circumstances of example, this would be Company B. Company A does 
not  control  the  investment  risk  that  carries  a  potential  risk  premium.  An 
assessment may be necessary of the commercial rationality of the transaction 
based on the guidance in Section D.2 taking into account the full facts and 
circumstances of the transaction.

1.104.  Guidance on the relationship between risk assumption in relation to the 
provision of funding and the operational activities for which the funds are used 
is given in paragraphs 6.60-6.64. The concepts reflected in these paragraphs 
are equally applicable to investments in assets other than intangibles.

1.105.  A party should always be appropriately compensated for its control 
functions  in  relation  to  risk.  Usually,  the  compensation  will  derive  from 
the  consequences  of  being  allocated  risk,  and  therefore  that  party  will  be 
entitled  to  receive  the  upside  benefits  and  to  incur  the  downside  costs.  In 
circumstances  where  a  party  contributes  to  the  control  of  risk,  but  does 
not  assume  the  risk,  compensation  which  takes  the  form  of  a  sharing  in 
the potential upside and downside, commensurate with that contribution to 
control, may be appropriate.

1.106.  The  difference  between  ex  ante  and  ex  post  returns  discussed 
in  particular  in  Section  D  of  Chapter  VI  arises  in  large  part  from  risks 
associated  with  the  uncertainty  of  future  business  outcomes.  As  discussed 
in paragraph 1.78 the ex ante contractual assumption of risk should provide 
clear evidence of a commitment to assume risk prior to the materialisation of 
risk outcomes. Following the steps in this section, the transfer pricing analysis 
will  determine  the  accurate  delineation  of  the  transaction  with  respect  to 
risk, including the risk associated with unanticipated returns. A party which, 
under  these  steps,  does  not  assume  the  risk,  nor  contributes  to  the  control 
of that risk, will not be entitled to unanticipated profits (or required to bear 
unanticipated losses) arising from that risk. In the circumstances of Example 3 
(see paragraph 1.85), this would mean that neither unanticipated profits nor 
unanticipated losses will be allocated to Company A. Accordingly, if the asset 
in Example 3 were unexpectedly destroyed, resulting in an unanticipated loss, 
that  loss  would  be  allocated  for  transfer  pricing  purposes  to  the  company 
or  companies  that  control  the  investment  risk,  contribute  to  the  control  of 
that risk and have the financial capacity to assume that risk, and that would 

2. 

Company  A  could  potentially  be  entitled  to  less  than  a  risk-free  return  if,  for 
example, the transaction is disregarded under S