s  of  the  case.  Where  the  net  profit  indicator 
is weighted against costs, only those costs that directly or indirectly relate 
to  the  controlled  transaction  under  review  (or  transactions  aggregated  in 
accordance  to  the  principle  in  paragraphs  3.9-3.12)  should  be  taken  into 
account.  Accordingly,  an  appropriate  level  of  segmentation  of  a  taxpayer’s 
accounts is needed in order to exclude from the denominator costs that relate 
to  other  activities  or  transactions  and  materially  affect  comparability  with 
uncontrolled transactions. Moreover, in most cases only those costs which are 
of an operating nature should be included in the denominator. The discussion 
in paragraphs 2.86-2.91 above also applies to costs as denominator.

2.99. 
In applying a cost-based transactional net margin method, fully loaded 
costs are often used, including all the direct and indirect costs attributable to 
the activity or transaction, together with an appropriate allocation in respect 
of the overheads of the business. The question can arise whether and to what 
extent  it  is  acceptable  at  arm’s  length  to  treat  a  significant  portion  of  the 
taxpayer’s costs as pass-through costs to which no profit element is attributed 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

124 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

(i.e. as costs which are potentially excludable from the denominator of the net 
profit indicator). This depends on the extent to which an independent party 
in comparable circumstances would agree not to earn a mark-up on part of 
the costs it incurs. The response should not be based on the classification of 
costs as “internal” or “external” costs, but rather on a comparability (including 
functional) analysis. See paragraph 7.34.

2.100.  Where  treating  costs  as  pass-through  costs  is  found  to  be  arm’s 
length,  a  second  question  arises  as  to  the  consequences  on  comparability 
and on the determination of the arm’s length range. Because it is necessary 
to  compare  like  with  like,  if  pass-through  costs  are  excluded  from  the 
denominator of the taxpayer’s net profit indicator, comparable costs should 
also be excluded from the denominator of the comparable net profit indicator. 
Comparability  issues  may  arise  in  practice  where  limited  information  is 
available on the breakdown of the costs of the comparables.
2.101.  Depending on the facts and circumstances of the case, actual costs, 
as well as standard or budgeted costs, may be appropriate to use as the cost 
base.  Using  actual  costs  may  raise  an  issue  because  the  tested  party  may 
have no incentive to carefully monitor the costs. In arrangements between 
independent parties, it is not rare that a cost savings objective is factored into 
the remuneration method. It can also happen in manufacturing arrangements 
between independent parties that prices are set on the basis of standard costs, 
and that any decrease or increase in actual costs compared to standard costs 
is attributed to the manufacturer. Where they reflect the arrangements that 
would  be  taken  between  independent  parties,  similar  mechanisms  could 
be taken into account in the application of the cost-based transactional net 
margin  method.  See  paragraph  2.58  for  a  discussion  of  the  same  issue  in 
relation to the cost plus method.
2.102.  The use of budgeted costs can also raise a number of concerns where 
large differences between actual costs and budgeted costs result. Independent 
parties  are  not  likely  to  set  prices  on  the  basis  of  budgeted  costs  without 
agreeing on what factors are to be taken into account in setting the budget, 
without having regard to how budgeted costs have compared with actual costs 
in previous years and without addressing how unforeseen circumstances are 
to be treated.

B.3.4.3. Cases where the net profit is weighted to assets

2.103.  Returns on assets (or on capital) can be an appropriate base in cases 
where  assets  (rather  than  costs  or  sales)  are  a  better  indicator  of  the  value 
added by the tested party, e.g. in certain manufacturing or other asset-intensive 
activities and in capital-intensive financial activities. Where the indicator is a 
net profit weighted to assets, operating assets only should be used. Operating 
assets include tangible operating fixed assets, including land and buildings, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 125

plant and equipment, operating intangible assets used in the business, such as 
patents and know-how, and working capital assets such as inventory and trade 
receivables (less trade payables). Investments and cash balances are generally 
not operating assets outside the financial industry sector.

2.104.  In cases where the net profit is weighted to assets, the question arises 
how to value the assets, e.g. at book value or market value. Usi