etermined by the actual 
conduct of the parties in the context of the contractual terms, rather than by 
aspects of written contractual terms which are not in practice applied. The 
principle can be further illustrated by Example 7 in the Annex to Chapter VI, 
where there is an inconsistency between the contractual assumption of risk 
and the conduct of the parties as evidenced by the bearing of costs relating to 
the downside outcome of that risk.

1.90.  Under step 4(ii) it should be determined whether the party assuming 
the  risk  under  the  contract,  taking  into  account  whether  the  contractual 
terms  have  been  applied  in  the  conduct  of  the  parties  under  step  4(i), 
controls the risk and has the financial capacity to assume the risk. If all the 
circumstances set out in Example 1 remain the same except for the fact that 
the contract between Company A and Company B allocates development risk 
to Company B, and if there is no evidence from the conduct of the parties 
under step 4(i) to suggest that the contractual allocation of risk is not being 
followed, then Company B contractually assumes development risk but the 
facts remain that Company B has no capability to evaluate the development 
risk and does not make decisions about Company A’s activities. Company B 
has no decision-making function which allows it to control the development 
risk by taking decisions that affect the outcomes of that risk. Based on the 
information  provided  in  Example  1,  the  development  risk  is  controlled  by 
Company A. The determination that the party assuming a risk is not the party 
controlling that risk means that further consideration is required under step 5.

1.91. 
If  the  circumstances  of  Example  2  remain  the  same  except  for  the 
fact that, while the contract specifies that Company A assumes supply chain 
risks, Company B is not reimbursed by Company A when there was a failure 
to secure key components on time, the analysis under step 4(i) would show 
that contractual assumption of risk has not been followed in practice in regard 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 63

to that supply chain risk, such that Company B in fact assumes the downside 
consequences of that risk. Based on the information provided in Example 2, 
Company B does not have any control over the supply chain risk, whereas 
Company  A  does  exercise  control.  Therefore,  the  party  assuming  risk  as 
analysed under step 4(i), does not under step 4(ii) exercise control over that 
risk, and further consideration is required under step 5.

1.92. 
In  the  circumstances  of  Example  3,  analysis  under  step  4(i)  shows 
that  the  assumption  of  utilisation  risk  by  Company  A  is  consistent  with  its 
contractual arrangements with Company C, but under step 4(ii) it is determined 
that  Company  A  does  not  control  risks  that  it  assumes  associated  with  the 
investment in and exploitation of the asset. Company A has no decision-making 
function which allows it to control its risks by taking decisions that affect the 
outcomes of the risks. Under step 4(ii) the party assuming risk does not control 
that risk, and further consideration is required under step 5.

In  some  cases,  the  analysis  under  step  3  may  indicate  that  there 
1.93. 
is  more  than  one  MNE  that  is  capable  of  exercising  control  over  a  risk. 
However,  control  requires  both  capability  and  functional  performance  in 
order  to  exercise  control  over  a  risk.  Therefore,  if  more  than  one  party  is 
capable of exercising control, but the entity contractually assuming risk (as 
analysed  under  step  4(i))  is  the  only  party  that  actually  exercises  control 
through capability and functional performance, then the party contractually 
assuming the risk also controls the risk.

1.94.  Furthermore,  in  some  cases,  there  may  be  more  than  one  party  to 
the transaction exercising control over a specific risk. Where the associated 
enterprise  assuming  risk  (as  analysed  under  step  4(i))  controls  that  risk  in 
accordance  with  the  requirements  set  out  in  paragraphs  1.65-1.66,  all  that 
remains under step 4(ii) is to consider whether the enterprise has the financial 
capacity to assume the risk. If so, the fact that other associated enterprises 
also exercise control over the same risk does not affect the assumption of that 
risk by the first-mentioned enterprise, and step 5 need not be considered.

1.95.  Where two or more parties to the transaction assume a specific risk 
(as analysed under step 4(i)), and in addition they together control the specific 
risk  and  each  has  the  financial  capacity  to  assume  their  share  of  the  risk, 
then that assumption of risk should be respected. Examples may include the 
contractual assumption of development risk under a transaction in which the 
enterprises agree jointly to be