NTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 563

Model legislation related to Country-by-Country Reporting

Article 1
Definitions

For  purposes  of  this  [title  of  the  law]  the  following  terms  have  the 

following meanings:

The term “Group” means a collection of enterprises related through 
1. 
ownership or control such that it is either required to prepare Consolidated 
Financial  Statements  for  financial  reporting  purposes  under  applicable 
accounting principles or would be so required if equity interests in any of the 
enterprises were traded on a public securities exchange.

2. 
The term “MNE Group” means any Group that (i) includes two or 
more enterprises the tax residence for which is in different jurisdictions, or 
includes an enterprise that is resident for tax purposes in one jurisdiction and 
is subject to tax with respect to the business carried out through a permanent 
establishment in another jurisdiction, and (ii) is not an Excluded MNE Group.

3. 
The term “Excluded MNE Group” means, with respect to any Fiscal 
year of the Group, a Group having total consolidated group revenue of less than 
[750 million Euro]/[insert an amount in local currency approximately equivalent 
to  750  million  Euro  as  of  January  2015]  during  the  Fiscal  year  immediately 
preceding the Reporting Fiscal year as reflected in its Consolidated Financial 
Statements for such preceding Fiscal year.

The term “Constituent Entity” means (i) any separate business unit 
4. 
of an MNE Group that is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements 
of the MNE Group for financial reporting purposes, or would be so included 
if equity interests in such business unit of an MNE Group were traded on 
a  public  securities  exchange;  (ii)  any  such  business  unit  that  is  excluded 
from the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements solely on size or 
materiality grounds; and (iii) any permanent establishment of any separate 
business unit of the MNE Group included in (i) or (ii) above provided the 
business  unit  prepares  a  separate  financial  statement  for  such  permanent 
establishment  for  financial  reporting,  regulatory,  tax  reporting,  or  internal 
management control purposes.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

564 – ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

5. 
The  term  “Reporting  Entity”  means  the  Constituent  Entity  that  is 
required to file a Country-by-Country Report conforming to the requirements 
in Article 4 in its jurisdiction of tax residence on behalf of the MNE Group. 
The Reporting Entity may be the Ultimate Parent Entity, the Surrogate Parent 
Entity, or any entity described in paragraph 2 of Article 2.

The term “Ultimate Parent Entity” means a Constituent Entity of an 

6. 
MNE Group that meets the following criteria:

i) 

it owns directly or indirectly a sufficient interest in one or more other 
Constituent  Entities  of  such  MNE  Group  such  that  it  is  required 
to  prepare  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  under  accounting 
principles  generally  applied  in  its  jurisdiction  of  tax  residence,  or 
would be so required if its equity interests were traded on a public 
securities exchange in its jurisdiction of tax residence; and

ii)  there is no other Constituent Entity of such MNE Group that owns 
directly or indirectly an interest described in subsection (i) above in 
the first mentioned Constituent Entity.

7. 
The  term  “Surrogate  Parent  Entity”  means  one  Constituent  Entity 
of the MNE Group that has been appointed by such MNE Group, as a sole 
substitute  for  the  Ultimate  Parent  Entity,  to  file  the  Country-by-Country 
Report in that Constituent Entity’s jurisdiction of tax residence, on behalf of 
such MNE Group, when one or more of the conditions set out in subsection (ii) 
of paragraph 2 of Article 2 applies.

8. 
The  term  “Fiscal  year”  means  an  annual  accounting  period  with 
respect to which the Ultimate Parent Entity of the MNE Group prepares its 
financial statements.

The term “Reporting Fiscal year” means that Fiscal year the financial 
9. 
and operational results of which are reflected in the Country-by-Country Report 
defined in Article 4.

The term “Qualifying Competent Authority Agreement” means an 
10. 
agreement (i) that is between authorised representatives of those jurisdictions 
that  are  parties  to  an  International  Agreement  and  (ii)  that  requires  the 
automatic  exchange  of  Country-by-Country  Reports  between  the  party 
jurisdictions.

11. 
The  term  “International  Agreement”  shall  mean  the  Multilateral 
Convention  for  Mutual  Administrative  Assistance  in  Tax  Matters,  any 
bilateral or multilateral Tax Convention, or any Tax Information Exchange 
Agreement to which [Jurisdiction] is a party, and that by its terms provides 
legal  authority  for  the  exchange  of  tax  information  between  jurisdictions, 
includ