y,  in  such  cases  the  CUP  method  is  preferable  over  all  other 
methods.

It  may  be  difficult  to  find  a  transaction  between  independent 
2.16. 
enterprises  that  is  similar  enough  to  a  controlled  transaction  such  that  no 
differences have a material effect on price. For example, a minor difference 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

98 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

in  the  property  transferred  in  the  controlled  and  uncontrolled  transactions 
could  materially  affect  the  price  even  though  the  nature  of  the  business 
activities undertaken may be sufficiently similar to generate the same overall 
profit margin. When this is the case, some adjustments will be appropriate. 
As  discussed  below  in  paragraph  2.17,  the  extent  and  reliability  of  such 
adjustments will affect the relative reliability of the analysis under the CUP 
method.
2.17. 
In considering whether controlled and uncontrolled transactions are 
comparable, regard should be had to the effect on price of broader business 
functions  other  than  just  product  comparability  (i.e.  factors  relevant  to 
determining comparability under Chapter I). Where differences exist between 
the  controlled  and  uncontrolled  transactions  or  between  the  enterprises 
undertaking  those  transactions,  it  may  be  difficult  to  determine  reasonably 
accurate  adjustments  to  eliminate  the  effect  on  price.  The  difficulties  that 
arise  in  attempting  to  make  reasonably  accurate  adjustments  should  not 
routinely  preclude  the  possible  application  of  the  CUP  method.  Practical 
considerations dictate a more flexible approach to enable the CUP method to 
be used and to be supplemented as necessary by other appropriate methods, 
all of which should be evaluated according to their relative accuracy. Every 
effort should be made to adjust the data so that it may be used appropriately in 
a CUP method. As for any method, the relative reliability of the CUP method 
is affected by the degree of accuracy with which adjustments can be made to 
achieve comparability.
Subject  to  the  guidance  in  paragraph  2.2  for  selecting  the  most 
2.18. 
appropriate transfer pricing method in the circumstances of a particular case, 
the CUP method would generally be an appropriate transfer pricing method 
for establishing the arm’s length price for the transfer of commodities between 
associated enterprises. The reference to “commodities” shall be understood to 
encompass physical products for which a quoted price is used as a reference by 
independent parties in the industry to set prices in uncontrolled transactions. 
The term “quoted price” refers to the price of the commodity in the relevant 
period obtained in an international or domestic commodity exchange market. 
In this context, a quoted price also includes prices obtained from recognised 
and transparent price reporting or statistical agencies, or from governmental 
price-setting agencies, where such indexes are used as a reference by unrelated 
parties to determine prices in transactions between them.
2.19.  Under  the  CUP  method,  the  arm’s  length  price  for  commodity 
transactions  may  be  determined  by  reference  to  comparable  uncontrolled 
transactions  and  by  reference  to  comparable  uncontrolled  arrangements 
represented by the quoted price. Quoted commodity prices generally reflect the 
agreement between independent buyers and sellers in the market on the price 
for a specific type and amount of commodity, traded under specific conditions 
at a certain point in time. A relevant factor in determining the appropriateness 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 99

of using the quoted price for a specific commodity is the extent to which the 
quoted price is widely and routinely used in the ordinary course of business in 
the industry to negotiate prices for uncontrolled transactions comparable to the 
controlled transaction. Accordingly, depending on the facts and circumstances 
of  each  case,  quoted  prices  can  be  considered  as  a  reference  for  pricing 
commodity  transactions  between  associated  enterprises.  Taxpayers  and  tax 
administrations should be consistent in their application of the appropriately 
selected quoted price.
2.20.  For the CUP method to be reliably applied to commodity transactions, 
the economically relevant characteristics of the controlled transaction and the 
uncontrolled  transactions  or  the  uncontrolled  arrangements  represented  by 
the quoted price need to be comparable. For commodities, the economically 
relevant  characteristics  include,  among  others,  the  physical  features  and 
quality of the commodity; the contractual terms of the controlled transaction, 
such  as  volumes  traded,  period  of  the  arrangements,  the  timing  and  terms 
of delivery, transportation, insurance, and foreign c