by an independent lender in a comparable transaction; and (ii) no payment or 
comparability adjustment is required for the group synergy benefit that gives 
rise to the ability of S to borrow from independent enterprises at an interest rate 
lower than it could were it not a member of the group because the synergistic 
benefit of being able to borrow arises from S’s group membership alone and not 
from any deliberate concerted action of members of the MNE group.

Example 24

1.187.  The  facts  relating  to  S’s  credit  standing  and  borrowing  power  are 
identical to those in the preceding example. S borrows EUR 50 million from 
Bank A. The functional analysis suggests that Bank A would lend to S at an 
interest rate applicable to A rated borrowers without any formal guarantee. 

4. 

Example  2  should  not  be  viewed  as  providing  comprehensive  transfer  pricing 
guidance  on  guarantee  fees  in  respect  of  financial  transactions.  For  further 
guidance on the transfer pricing aspects of financial transactions, see Chapter X 
of these Guidelines.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 89

However, P agrees to guarantee the loan from Bank A in order to induce Bank 
A to lend at the interest rate that would be available to AAA rated borrowers. 
Under these circumstances, S should be required to pay a guarantee fee to P 
for providing the express guarantee. In calculating an arm’s length guarantee 
fee, the fee should reflect the benefit of raising S’s credit standing from A to 
AAA, not the benefit of raising S’s credit standing from Baa to AAA. The 
enhancement of S’s credit standing from Baa to A is attributable to the group 
synergy derived purely from passive association in the group which need not 
be compensated under the provisions of this section. The enhancement of S’s 
credit standing from A to AAA is attributable to a deliberate concerted action, 
namely the provision of the guarantee by P, and should therefore give rise to 
compensation.

Example 3

1.188.  Assume that Company A is assigned the role of central purchasing 
manager  on  behalf  of  the  entire  group.  It  purchases  from  independent 
suppliers and resells to associated enterprises. Company A, based solely on the 
negotiating leverage provided by the purchasing power of the entire group is 
able to negotiate with a supplier to reduce the price of widgets from USD 200 
to USD 110. Under these circumstances, the arm’s length price for the resale 
of widgets by Company A to other members of the group would not be at or 
near USD 200. Instead, the arm’s length price would remunerate Company A 
for its services of co-ordinating purchasing activity. If the comparability and 
functional  analysis  suggests  in  this  case  that  in  comparable  uncontrolled 
transactions  involving  a  comparable  volume  of  purchases,  comparable 
co-ordination services resulted in a service fee based on Company A’s costs 
incurred plus a mark-up equating to a total service fee of USD 6 per widget, 
then the intercompany price for the resale of the widgets by Company A would 
be approximately USD 116. Under these circumstances, each member of the 
group  would  derive  benefits  attributable  to  the  group  purchasing  power  of 
approximately USD 84 per widget. In addition, Company A would earn USD 6 
per widget purchased by members of the group for its service functions.

Example 4

1.189.  Assume  facts  similar  to  those  in  Example  3,  except  that  instead  of 
actually  purchasing  and  reselling  the  widgets,  Company  A  negotiates  the 
discount on behalf of the group and group members subsequently purchase the 
widgets directly from the independent supplier. Under these circumstances, 
assume that the comparability analysis suggests that Company A would be 
entitled to a service fee of USD 5 per widget for the co-ordinating services 
that  it  performed  on  behalf  of  other  group  members.  (The  lower  assumed 
service fee in Example 4 as compared to Example 3 may reflect a lower level 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

90 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

of risk in the service provider following from the fact that it does not take title 
to  the  widgets  or  hold  any  inventory.)  Group  members  purchasing  widgets 
would retain the benefit of the group purchasing discount attributable to their 
individual purchases after payment of the service fee.

Example 5

1.190.  Assume a multinational group based in Country A, has manufacturing 
subsidiaries in Country B and Country C. Country B has a tax rate of 30% and 
Country C has a tax rate of 10%. The group also maintains a shared services 
centre in Country D. Assume that the manufacturing subsidiaries in Country B 
and Country C each have need of 5 000 widgets produced by an independent 
supplier  as  an  input  to  their  manufacturing  processes.  Assume  further  that 
the  Country  D  shared 