hasing  power  and  product  preferences  of 
households in that market, whether the market is expanding or contracting, 
the degree of competition in the market and other similar factors affect prices 
and margins that can be realised in the market. Similarly, the comparability 
and  functional  analysis  conducted  in  connection  with  a  particular  matter 
may  suggest  that  the  relative  availability  of  local  country  infrastructure, 
the relative availability of a pool of trained or educated workers, proximity 
to  profitable  markets,  and  similar  features  in  a  geographic  market  where 
business  operations  occur  create  market  advantages  or  disadvantages  that 
should be taken into account. Appropriate comparability adjustments should 
be  made  to  account  for  such  factors  where  reliable  adjustments  that  will 
improve comparability can be identified.

1.165. 
In assessing whether comparability adjustments for such local market 
features  are  required,  the  most  reliable  approach  will  be  to  refer  to  data 
regarding  comparable  uncontrolled  transactions  in  that  geographic  market 
between  independent  enterprises  performing  similar  functions,  assuming 
similar risks, and using similar assets. Such transactions are carried out under 
the same market conditions as the controlled transaction, and, accordingly, 
where comparable transactions in the local market can be identified, specific 
adjustments for features of the local market should not be required.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 83

1.166. 
In  situations  where  reasonably  reliable  local  market  comparables 
cannot  be  identified,  the  determination  of  appropriate  comparability 
adjustments for features of the local market should consider all of the relevant 
facts and circumstances. As with location savings, in each case where reliable 
local  market  comparables  cannot  be  identified,  it  is  necessary  to  consider 
(i) whether a market advantage or disadvantage exists, (ii) the amount of any 
increase or decrease in revenues, costs or profits, vis-à-vis those of identified 
comparables  from  other  markets,  that  are  attributable  to  the  local  market 
advantage or disadvantage, (iii) the degree to which benefits or burdens of 
local market features are passed on to independent customers or suppliers, 
and (iv) where benefits or burdens attributable to local market features exist 
and are not fully passed on to independent customers or suppliers, the manner 
in  which  independent  enterprises  operating  under  similar  circumstances 
would allocate such net benefits or burdens between them.

1.167.  The need for comparability adjustments related to features of the local 
market in cases where reasonably reliable local market comparables cannot 
be identified may arise in several different contexts. In some circumstances, 
market advantages or disadvantages may affect arm’s length prices of goods 
transferred or services provided between associated enterprises.

1.168. 
In  other  circumstances,  a  business  restructuring  or  the  transfer  of 
intangibles between associated enterprises may make it possible for one party 
to the transaction to gain the benefit of local market advantages or require 
that party to assume the burden of local market disadvantages in a manner 
that would not have been possible in the absence of the business restructuring 
or transfer of the intangibles. In such circumstances, the anticipated existence 
of  local  market  advantages  and  disadvantages  may  affect  the  arm’s  length 
price paid in connection with the business restructuring or intangible transfer.

1.169. 
In conducting a transfer pricing analysis it is important to distinguish 
between  features  of  the  local  market,  which  are  not  intangibles,  and  any 
contractual rights, government licences, or know-how necessary to exploit 
that  market,  which  may  be  intangibles.  Depending  on  the  circumstances, 
these types of intangibles may have substantial value that  should be taken 
into  account  in  a  transfer  pricing  analysis  in  the  manner  described  in 
Chapter  VI,  including  the  guidance  on  rewarding  entities  for  functions, 
assets  and  risks  associated  with  the  development  of  intangibles  contained 
in Section B of Chapter VI. In some circumstances, contractual rights and 
government licences may limit access of competitors to a particular market 
and may therefore affect the manner in which the economic consequences of 
local market features are shared between parties to a particular transaction. 
In other circumstances, contractual rights or government licences to access 
a market may be available to many or all potential market entrants with little 
restriction.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

84 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

1.170.  For example, a country may r