s.
4.164.  In addition to the foregoing concerns, there are a number of possible 
pitfalls  as  described  below  that  could  arise  if  an  APA  programme  were 
improperly  administered,  and  tax  administrations  who  use  APAs  should 
make strong efforts to eliminate the occurrence of these problems as APA 
practice evolves.
4.165.  For example, an APA might seek more detailed industry and taxpayer 
specific information than would be requested in a transfer pricing examination. 
In principle, this should not be the case and the documentation required for an 
APA should not be more onerous than for an examination, except for the fact 
that in an APA the tax administration will need to have details of predictions 
and the basis for those predictions, which may not be central issues in a transfer 
pricing examination that focuses on completed transactions. In fact, an APA 
should  seek  to  limit  the  documentation,  as  discussed  above,  and  focus  the 
documentation more closely on the issues in light of the taxpayer’s business 
practices. Tax administrations need to recognise that:

a)  Publicly available information on competitors and comparables 

is limited;

b)  Not all taxpayers have the capacity to undertake in-depth market 

analyses; and,

c)  Only parent companies may be knowledgeable about group pricing 

policies.

4.166.  Another possible concern is that an APA may allow the tax administration 
to  make  a  closer  study  of  the  transactions  at  issue  than  would  occur  in 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

222 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

the  context  of  a  transfer  pricing  examination,  depending  on  the  facts  and 
circumstances.  The  taxpayer  must  provide  detailed  information  relating 
to  its  transfer  pricing  and  satisfy  any  other  requirements  imposed  for  the 
verification  of  compliance  with  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  APA. 
At  the  same  time,  the  taxpayer  is  not  sheltered  from  normal  and  routine 
examinations by the tax administration on other issues. An APA also does 
not shelter a taxpayer from examination of its transfer pricing activities. The 
taxpayer may still have to establish that it has complied in good faith with 
the terms and conditions of the APA, that the material representations in the 
APA remain valid, that the supporting data used in applying the methodology 
were correct, that the critical assumptions underlying the APA are still valid 
and are applied consistently, and that the methodology is applied consistently. 
Tax administrations should, therefore, seek to ensure that APA procedures 
are not unnecessarily cumbersome and that they do not make more demand 
of taxpayers than are strictly required by the scope of the APA application.

4.167.  Problems could also develop if tax administrations misuse information 
obtained in an APA in their examination practices. If the taxpayer withdraws 
from its APA request or if the taxpayer’s application is rejected after consideration 
of  all  of  the  facts,  any  nonfactual  information  provided  by  the  taxpayer  in 
connection with the APA request, such as settlement offers, reasoning, opinions, 
and judgments, cannot be treated as relevant in any respect to the examination. 
In addition, the fact that a taxpayer has applied unsuccessfully for an APA should 
not be taken into account by the tax administration in determining whether to 
commence an examination of that taxpayer.

4.168.  Tax administrations also should ensure the confidentiality of trade 
secrets  and  other  sensitive  information  and  documentation  submitted 
to  them  in  the  course  of  an  APA  proceeding.  Therefore,  domestic  rules 
against disclosure should be applied. In a bilateral APA the confidentiality 
requirements  on  treaty  partners  would  apply,  thereby  preventing  public 
disclosure of confidential data.

4.169.  An  APA  programme  cannot  be  used  by  all  taxpayers  because  the 
procedure can be expensive and time-consuming and small taxpayers generally 
may not be able to afford it. This is especially true if independent experts are 
involved.  APAs  may  therefore  only  assist  in  resolving  mainly  large  transfer 
pricing cases. In addition, the resource implications of an APA programme may 
limit the number of requests a tax administration can entertain. In evaluating 
APAs, tax administrations can alleviate these potential problems by ensuring 
that the level of inquiry is adjusted to the size of the international transactions 
involved.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 223

F.5. Recommendations

F.5.1. In general

4.170.  Since the Guidelines were published in their original version in 1995, a 
significant number of OECD member countries have acquired experience with 
APAs. Those jurisdictions which do have some experience seem to be satisfied 
so  far,  so  that  it  can  be  