 of identifying comparables are discussed in Chapter V.

A.6.  Comparability adjustments

3.47.  The  need  to  adjust  comparables  and  the  requirement  for  accuracy 
and reliability are pointed out in these Guidelines on several occasions, both 
for the general application of the arm’s length principle and more specifically 
in  the  context  of  each  method.  To  be  comparable  means  that  none  of  the 
differences (if any) between the situations being compared could materially 
affect the condition being examined in the methodology or that reasonably 
accurate  adjustments  can  be  made  to  eliminate  the  effect  of  any  such 
differences.  Whether  comparability  adjustments  should  be  performed  (and 
if so, what adjustments should be performed) in a particular case is a matter 
of judgment that should be evaluated in light of the discussion of costs and 
compliance burden in Section C.

A.6.1. Different types of comparability adjustments

3.48.  Examples  of  comparability  adjustments  include  adjustments  for 
accounting  consistency  designed  to  eliminate  differences  that  may  arise 
from differing accounting practices between the controlled and uncontrolled 
transactions;  segmentation  of  financial  data  to  eliminate  significant  non-
comparable  transactions;  adjustments  for  differences  in  capital,  functions, 
assets, risks.

3.49.  An  example  of  a  working  capital  adjustment  designed  to  reflect 
differing  levels  of  accounts  receivable,  accounts  payable  and  inventory  is 
provided  in  the  Annex  to  Chapter  III.  The  fact  that  such  adjustments  are 
found in practice does not mean that they should be performed on a routine or 
mandatory basis. Rather, the improvement to comparability should be shown 
when proposing these types of adjustments (as for any type of adjustment). 
Further, a significantly different level of relative working capital between the 
controlled and uncontrolled parties may result in further investigation of the 
comparability characteristics of the potential comparable.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

164 – CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS

A.6.2. Purpose of comparability adjustments

3.50.  Comparability adjustments should be considered if (and only if) they 
are expected to increase the reliability of the results. Relevant considerations 
in  this  regard  include  the  materiality  of  the  difference  for  which  an 
adjustment is being considered, the quality of the data subject to adjustment, 
the purpose of the adjustment and the reliability of the approach used to make 
the adjustment.

3.51. 
It bears emphasis that comparability adjustments are only appropriate 
for  differences  that  will  have  a  material  effect  on  the  comparison.  Some 
differences will invariably exist between the taxpayer’s controlled transactions 
and the third party comparables. A comparison may be appropriate despite an 
unadjusted difference, provided that the difference does not have a material 
effect  on  the  reliability  of  the  comparison.  On  the  other  hand,  the  need  to 
perform  numerous  or  substantial  adjustments  to  key  comparability  factors 
may  indicate  that  the  third  party  transactions  are  in  fact  not  sufficiently 
comparable.

3.52. 
It is not always the case that adjustments are warranted. For instance, 
an adjustment for differences in accounts receivable may not be particularly 
useful  if  major  differences  in  accounting  standards  were  also  present  that 
could  not  be  resolved.  Likewise,  sophisticated  adjustments  are  sometimes 
applied to create the false impression that the outcome of the comparables 
search is “scientific”, reliable and accurate.

A.6.3. Reliability of the adjustment performed

3.53. 
It is not appropriate to view some comparability adjustments, such as 
for differences in levels of working capital, as “routine” and uncontroversial, 
and  to  view  certain  other  adjustments,  such  as  for  country  risk,  as  more 
subjective  and  therefore  subject  to  additional  requirements  of  proof  and 
reliability.  The  only  adjustments  that  should  be  made  are  those  that  are 
expected to improve comparability.

A.6.4. Documenting and testing comparability adjustments

3.54.  Ensuring the needed level of transparency of comparability adjustments 
may  depend  upon  the  availability  of  an  explanation  of  any  adjustments 
performed, the reasons for the adjustments being considered appropriate, how 
they  were  calculated,  how  they  changed  the  results  for  each  comparable  and 
how the adjustment improves comparability. Issues regarding documentation of 
comparability adjustments are discussed in Chapter V.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS – 165

A.7. Arm’s length range

A.7.1. In general

3.55. 
In some cases it will be possible to apply the arm’s length principle 
to arr