tivity. Although in principle the smallness of a participant’s share 
of expected benefits is no bar to eligibility, if a participant that is performing 
all  of  the  subject  activity  is  expected  to  have  only  a  small  fraction  of  the 
overall  expected  benefits,  it  may  be  questioned  whether  the  reality  of  the 
arrangements for that party is to pool resources and share risks or whether 
the appearance of sharing in mutual benefits has been constructed to obtain 
more favourable tax results. The existence of significant balancing payments 
arising from a material difference between the parties’ proportionate shares 
of contributions and benefits may also give rise to questions about whether 
mutual  benefits  exist  or  whether  the  arrangements  should  be  accurately 
delineated, taking into account all the economically relevant characteristics, 
as a funding transaction.

8.40.  As indicated in paragraph 8.33, the guidance in Chapter VI on hard-
to-value  intangibles  may  equally  apply  in  situations  involving  CCAs.  This 
will be the case if the objective of the CCA is to develop a new intangible that 
is hard to value at the start of the development project, but also in valuing 
contributions  involving  pre-existing  intangibles.  Where  the  arrangements 
viewed in their totality lack commercial rationality in accordance with the 
criteria in Section D.2 of Chapter I, the CCA may be disregarded.

C.7. The tax treatment of contributions and balancing payments

8.41.  Contributions, including any balancing payments, by a participant to 
a CCA should be treated for tax purposes in the same manner as would apply 
under the general rules of the tax system(s) applicable to that participant if 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

352 – CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS

the contributions were made outside a CCA, to carry on the activity that is 
the subject of the CCA. The character of the contribution will depend on the 
nature of the activity being undertaken by the CCA, and will determine how 
it is recognised for tax purposes.

8.42. 
In services CCAs, a participant’s contribution to the CCA will often 
give  rise  to  benefits  in  the  form  of  cost  savings  (in  which  case  there  may 
not be any income generated directly by the CCA activity). In development 
CCAs,  the  expected  benefits  to  participants  may  not  accrue  until  some 
time after contributions are made, and therefore there will be no immediate 
recognition of income to the participants on their contributions at the time 
they are made.

8.43.  Any  balancing  payment  should  be  treated  as  an  addition  to  the 
contribution  of  the  payor  and  as  a  reduction  in  the  contribution  of  the 
recipient.  As  with  contributions  generally,  the  character  and  tax  treatment 
of any balancing payments will be determined in accordance with domestic 
laws, including applicable tax treaties.

D. CCA entry, withdrawal or termination

8.44.  Changes  in  the  membership  of  a  CCA  will  generally  trigger  a 
reassessment  of  the  proportionate  shares  of  participants’  contributions  and 
expected benefits. An entity that becomes a participant in an already active 
CCA might obtain an interest in any results of prior CCA activity, such as 
completed or work-in-progress intangibles or tangible assets. In such cases, 
the previous participants effectively transfer part of their respective interests 
in the results of the prior CCA activity to the new entrant. Under the arm’s 
length principle, any such transfer of intangibles or tangible assets must be 
compensated based on an arm’s length value for the transferred interest. Such 
compensation is referred to in this chapter as a “buy-in payment”.

8.45.  The amount of a buy-in payment should be determined based upon 
the value (i.e. the arm’s length price) of the interest in the intangibles and/or 
tangible assets the new entrant obtains, taking into account the new entrant’s 
proportionate  share  of  the  overall  expected  benefits  to  be  received  under 
the CCA. There may also be cases where a new participant brings existing 
intangibles or tangible assets to the CCA, and that balancing payments may 
be appropriate from the other participants in recognition of this contribution. 
Any  balancing  payments  to  the  new  entrant  could  be  netted  against  any 
buy-in payments required, although appropriate records must be kept of the 
full amounts of the separate payments for tax administration purposes.

8.46.  Similar  issues  could  arise  when  a  participant  leaves  a  CCA.  In 
particular, a participant that leaves a CCA may dispose of its interest in the 
results, if any, of past CCA activity (including work in progress) to the other 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS – 353

participants. Any such transfer should be compensated according to the arm’s 
