r’s tax 
liability and the implementation of a mutual agreement procedure. Moreover, 
the  OECD  Model  Agreement  envisions  that  simultaneous  tax  examinations 
may facilitate mutual agreement procedures, because tax administrations will 
be able to build up more complete factual evidence for those tax adjustments for 
which a mutual agreement procedure may be requested by a taxpayer. Based 
upon the determination and evaluation of facts and the proposed tax treatment 
of the transfer pricing issues concerned as set forth in the tax administrations’ 
statements described above, the practical operation of the mutual agreement 
procedure may be improved significantly, allowing the competent authorities 
to reach an agreement more easily.

4.92.  The  associated  enterprises  may  also  benefit  from  simultaneous  tax 
examinations from the savings of time and resources due to the co-ordination of 
inquiries from the tax administrations involved and the avoidance of duplication. 
In addition, the simultaneous involvement of two or more tax administrations in 
the examination of transfer pricing between associated enterprises may provide 
the opportunity for an MNE to take a more active role in resolving its transfer 
pricing issues. By presenting the relevant facts and arguments to each of the 
participating  tax  administrations  during  the  simultaneous  tax  examination 
the associated enterprises may help avoid misunderstandings and facilitate the 
tax administrations’ concurring determination and evaluation of their transfer 
pricing conditions. Thus, the associated enterprises may obtain certainty with 
regard to their transfer pricing at an early stage. See paragraph 4.79.

D.4.  Recommendation on the use of simultaneous tax examinations

4.93.  As  a  result  of  the  increased  use  of  simultaneous  tax  examinations 
among OECD member countries, the Committee on Fiscal Affairs decided it 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 203

would be useful to draft the OECD Model Agreement for those countries that 
are able and wish to engage in this type of co-operation. On 23 July 1992, the 
Council of the OECD made a recommendation to member countries to use 
this Model Agreement, which provides guidelines on the legal and practical 
aspects of this form of co-operation.

4.94.  With  the  increasing  internationalisation  of  trade  and  business  and 
the complexity of transactions of MNEs, transfer pricing issues have become 
more  and  more  important.  Simultaneous  tax  examinations  can  alleviate 
the  difficulties  experienced  by  both  taxpayers  and  tax  administrations 
connected with the transfer pricing of MNEs. A greater use of simultaneous 
tax examinations is therefore recommended in the examination of transfer 
pricing  cases  and  to  facilitate  exchange  of  information  and  the  operation 
of  mutual  agreement  procedures.  In  a  simultaneous  examination,  if  a 
reassessment is made, both jurisdictions involved should endeavour to reach 
a result that avoids double taxation for the MNE group.

E. Safe harbours

E.1.  Introduction
4.95.  Applying  the  arm’s  length  principle  can  be  a  resource-intensive 
process. It may impose a heavy administrative burden on taxpayers and tax 
administrations that can be exacerbated by both complex rules and resulting 
compliance  demands.  These  facts  have  led  OECD  member  countries  to 
consider whether and when safe harbour rules would be appropriate in the 
transfer pricing area.
4.96.  When  these  Guidelines  were  adopted  in  1995,  the  view  expressed 
regarding  safe  harbour  rules  was  generally  negative.  It  was  suggested 
that  while  safe  harbours  could  simplify  transfer  pricing  compliance  and 
administration,  safe  harbour  rules  may  raise  fundamental  problems  that 
could potentially have perverse effects on the pricing decisions of enterprises 
engaged  in  controlled  transactions.  It  was  suggested  that  unilateral  safe 
harbours may have a negative impact on the tax revenues of the jurisdiction 
implementing the safe harbour, as well as on the tax revenues of jurisdictions 
whose associated enterprises engage in controlled transactions with taxpayers 
electing a safe harbour. It was further suggested that safe harbours may not be 
compatible with the arm’s length principle. Therefore, it was concluded that 
transfer pricing safe harbours are not generally advisable, and consequently 
the use of safe harbours was not recommended.

4.97.  Despite these generally negative conclusions, a number of jurisdictions 
have  adopted  safe  harbour  rules.  Those  rules  have  generally  been  applied 
to  smaller  taxpayers  and/or  less  complex  transactions.  They  are  generally 
evaluated favourably by both tax administrations and taxpayers, who indicate 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

204 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHE