my,  the  compensation  for  performing  similar 
2.30. 
functions would tend to be equalised across different activities. In contrast, 
prices for different products would tend to equalise only to the extent that 
those products were substitutes for one another. Because gross profit margins 
represent gross compensation, after the cost of sales for specific functions 
performed  (taking  into  account  assets  used  and  risks  assumed),  product 
differences  are  less  significant.  For  example,  the  facts  may  indicate  that  a 
distribution company performs the same functions (taking into account assets 
used  and  risks  assumed)  selling  toasters  as  it  would  selling  blenders,  and 
hence in a market economy there should be a similar level of compensation 
for the two activities. However, consumers would not consider toasters and 
blenders  to  be  particularly  close  substitutes,  and  hence  there  would  be  no 
reason to expect their prices to be the same.

2.31.  Although  broader  product  differences  can  be  allowed  in  the  resale 
price  method,  the  property  transferred  in  the  controlled  transaction  must 
still be compared to that being transferred in the uncontrolled transaction. 
Broader  differences  are  more  likely  to  be  reflected  in  differences  in 
functions performed between the parties to the controlled and uncontrolled 
transactions. While less product comparability may be required in using the 
resale price method, it remains the case that closer comparability of products 
will produce a better result. For example, where there is a valuable or unique 
intangible involved in the transaction, product similarity may assume greater 
importance  and  particular  attention  should  be  paid  to  it  to  ensure  that  the 
comparison is valid.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 103

2.32. 
It  may  be  appropriate  to  give  more  weight  to  other  attributes  of 
comparability  discussed  in  Chapter  I  (i.e.  functions  performed,  economic 
circumstances, etc.) when the profit margin relates primarily to those other 
attributes and only secondarily to the particular product being transferred. 
This circumstance will usually exist where the profit margin is determined 
for an associated enterprise that has not used unique assets (such as valuable, 
unique intangibles) to add significant value to the product being transferred. 
Thus, where uncontrolled and controlled transactions are comparable in all 
characteristics  other  than  the  product  itself,  the  resale  price  method  might 
produce  a  more  reliable  measure  of  arm’s  length  conditions  than  the  CUP 
method, unless reasonably accurate adjustments could be made to account 
for differences in the products transferred. The same point is true for the cost 
plus method, discussed below.

2.33.  When the resale price margin used is that of an independent enterprise 
in a comparable transaction, the reliability of the resale price method may be 
affected if there are material differences in the ways the associated enterprises 
and  independent  enterprises  carry  out  their  businesses.  Such  differences 
could include those that affect the level of costs taken into account (e.g. the 
differences could include the effect of management efficiency on levels and 
ranges  of  inventory  maintenance),  which  may  well  have  an  impact  on  the 
profitability of an enterprise but which may not necessarily affect the price 
at which it buys or sells its goods or services in the open market. These types 
of characteristics should be analysed in determining whether an uncontrolled 
transaction is comparable for purposes of applying the resale price method.

2.34.  The resale price method also depends on comparability of functions 
performed  (taking  into  account  assets  used  and  risks  assumed).  It  may 
become  less  reliable  when  there  are  differences  between  the  controlled 
and  uncontrolled  transactions  and  the  parties  to  the  transactions,  and  those 
differences have a material effect on the attribute being used to measure arm’s 
length conditions, in this case the resale price margin realised. Where there 
are material differences that affect the gross margins earned in the controlled 
and  uncontrolled  transactions  (e.g.  in  the  nature  of  the  functions  performed 
by the parties to the transactions), adjustments should be made to account for 
such differences. The extent and reliability of those adjustments will affect the 
relative reliability of the analysis under the resale price method in any particular 
case.

2.35.  An appropriate resale price margin is easiest to determine where the 
reseller  does  not  add  substantially  to  the  value  of  the  product.  In  contrast, 
it  may  be  more  difficult  to  use  the  resale  price  method  to  arrive  at  an 
arm’s  length  price  where,  before  resale,  the