process will be reflected in 
the mutual agreement that will be presented to these persons. Where a particular 
bilateral treaty does not contain an arbitration provision similar to paragraph 5 
of Article 25, the competent authorities are not obliged to reach an agreement 
to  resolve  their  dispute;  paragraph  2  of  Article  25  requires  only  that  the 
competent authorities “endeavour … to resolve the case by mutual agreement”. 
The competent authorities may be unable to come to an agreement because of 
conflicting domestic laws or restrictions imposed by domestic law on the tax 
administration’s  power  of  compromise.  Even  in  the  absence  of  a  mandatory 
binding arbitration provision similar to paragraph 5 of Article 25 in a particular 
bilateral  treaty,  however,  the  competent  authorities  of  the  Contracting  States 
may by mutual agreement establish a binding arbitration procedure for general 
application or to deal with a specific case (see paragraph 69 of the Commentary 
on Article 25 of the OECD Model Tax Convention). It should also be noted that a 
multilateral Convention on the elimination of double taxation in connection with 
the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises2 (the Arbitration Convention) 
was signed by the Member States of the European Communities on 23 July 1990; 
the Arbitration Convention, which entered into force on 1 January 1995, provides 
for  an  arbitration  mechanism  to  resolve  transfer  pricing  disputes  between 
European Union Member States.

C.2.  Corresponding adjustments: Paragraph 2 of Article 9

4.32.  To eliminate double taxation in transfer pricing cases, tax administrations 
may  consider  requests  for  corresponding  adjustments  as  described  in 

2. 

Convention 90/436/EEC.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 183

paragraph 2 of Article 9. A corresponding adjustment, which in practice may 
be  undertaken  as  part  of  the  mutual  agreement  procedure,  can  mitigate  or 
eliminate  double  taxation  in  cases  where  one  tax  administration  increases 
a company’s taxable profits (i.e. makes a primary adjustment) as a result of 
applying the arm’s length principle to transactions involving an associated 
enterprise  in  a  second  tax  jurisdiction.  The  corresponding  adjustment  in 
such a case is a downward adjustment to the tax liability of that associated 
enterprise,  made  by  the  tax  administration  of  the  second  jurisdiction,  so 
that the allocation of profits between the two jurisdictions is consistent with 
the  primary  adjustment  and  no  double  taxation  occurs.  It  is  also  possible 
that  the  first  tax  administration  will  agree  to  decrease  (or  eliminate)  the 
primary adjustment as part of the consultative process with the second tax 
administration, in which case the corresponding adjustment would be smaller 
(or perhaps unnecessary). It should be noted that a corresponding adjustment 
is not intended to provide a benefit to the MNE group greater than would 
have been the case if the controlled transactions had been undertaken at arm’s 
length conditions in the first instance.

4.33.  Paragraph  2  of  Article  9  specifically  provides  that  the  competent 
authorities  shall  consult  each  other  if  necessary  to  determine  appropriate 
corresponding  adjustments.  This  confirms  that  the  mutual  agreement 
procedure of Article 25 may be used to consider corresponding adjustment 
requests.  See  also  paragraph  10  of  the  Commentary  on  Article  25  of  the 
OECD  Model  Tax  Convention  (“…  the  corresponding  adjustments  to  be 
made  in  pursuance  of  paragraph  2  of  [Article  9]  …  fall  within  the  scope 
of  mutual  agreement  procedure,  both  as  concerns  assessing  whether 
they  are  well-founded  and  for  determining  their  amount.”  However,  the 
overlap  between  the  two  Articles  has  caused  OECD  member  countries  to 
consider  whether  the  mutual  agreement  procedure  can  be  used  to  achieve 
corresponding  adjustments  where  the  bilateral  income  tax  convention 
between  two  Contracting  States  does  not  include  a  provision  comparable 
to  paragraph  2  of  Article  9.  Paragraphs  11  and  12  of  the  Commentary  on 
Article  25  of  the  OECD  Model  Tax  Convention  expressly  state  the  view 
of  most  OECD  member  countries  that  the  mutual  agreement  procedure  is 
considered to apply to transfer pricing adjustment cases, including issues of 
whether a corresponding adjustment should be provided, even in the absence 
of a provision comparable to paragraph 2 of Article  9. Paragraph  12 notes 
that  those  States  that  do  not  agree  with  this  view  in  practice  find  means 
of remedying economic double taxation in most cases involving  bona fide 
companies by making use of provisions in their domestic laws.
4.34.  Under paragraph 2 of Article 9, a corresponding ad