comparing both situations 
to examine, based on the guidance in Section D.1.2.1 of Chapter I, whether 
the “limited risk distributor” that results from a conversion still assumes the 
risks associated with bad debts that arose before the restructuring at the time 
it  was  full-fledged,  or  whether  all  the  bad  debt  risks  including  those  that 
existed at the time of the conversion were transferred.

9.107.  The same remarks and questions apply for other types of restructurings, 
including  other  types  of  restructuring  of  sales  activities  as  well  as 
restructurings of manufacturing activities, research and development activities, 
or other services activities.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

394 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

B.  Application to business restructuring situations: selection and 

application of a transfer pricing method for the post-restructuring 
controlled transactions

9.108.  The  selection  and  application  of  a  transfer  pricing  method  to  post-
restructuring  controlled  transactions  must  derive  from  the  analysis  of 
the  economically  relevant  characteristics  of  the  controlled  transaction  as 
accurately delineated. It is essential to understand what the functions, assets 
and risks involved in the post-restructuring transactions are, and what party 
performs,  uses  or  assumes  them.  This  requires  information  to  be  available 
on  the  functions,  assets  and  risks  of  both  parties  to  a  transaction,  e.g.  the 
restructured entity and the foreign associated enterprise with which it transacts. 
The analysis should go beyond the label assigned to the restructured entity, as 
an entity that is labelled as a “commissionnaire” or “limited risk distributor” 
can sometimes be found to own valuable local intangibles and to continue to 
assume significant market risks, and an entity that is labelled as a “contract 
manufacturer”  can  sometimes  be  found  to  pursue  significant  development 
activities or to own and use unique intangibles. In post-restructuring situations, 
particular  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  identification  of  the  valuable 
intangibles  and  the  economically  significant  risks  that  effectively  remain 
with the restructured entity (including, where applicable, local non-protected 
intangibles),  and  to  whether  such  an  allocation  of  intangibles  and  risks 
satisfies the arm’s length principle. The form of remuneration cannot dictate 
inappropriate risk allocations. It is the determination of how the parties actually 
control risks, and whether they have the financial capacity to assume the risks, 
as set out in the process of analysing risk in Chapter I, which will determine the 
assumption of risks by the parties, and consequently dictate the selection of the 
most appropriate transfer pricing method. Issues regarding risks and intangibles 
are discussed in Part I of this chapter.

9.109.  Post-restructuring  arrangements  may  pose  certain  challenges  with 
respect  to  the  identification  of  potential  comparables  in  cases  where  the 
restructuring  implements  a  business  model  that  is  hardly  found  between 
independent  enterprises.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  mere  fact  that  an 
arrangement is not seen between independent enterprises does not in itself 
mean  that  it  is  not  arm’s  length  nor  commercially  irrational.  Furthermore, 
every effort should be made to determine the pricing for the restructuring 
transactions as accurately delineated under the arm’s length principle.

9.110.  There are cases where comparables (including internal comparables) 
are available, subject to possible comparability adjustments being performed. 
One  example  of  a  possible  application  of  the  CUP  method  would  be  the 
case where an enterprise that used to transact independently with the MNE 
group is acquired, and the acquisition is followed by a restructuring of the 
now  controlled  transactions.  Subject  to  a  review  of  the  five  economically 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 395

relevant characteristics or comparability factors and of the possible effect of 
the controlled and uncontrolled transactions taking place at different times, 
it might be the case that the conditions of the pre-acquisition uncontrolled 
transactions provide a CUP for the post-acquisition controlled transactions. 
Even where the conditions of the transactions are restructured, it might still 
be possible, depending on the facts and circumstances of the case, to adjust 
for  the  transfer  of  functions,  assets  and/or  risks  that  occurred  upon  the 
restructuring. For instance, a comparability adjustment might be performed 
to account for the fact that a different party assumes bad debt risk.

9.111.  Another example of a possible application of the CUP method would 
be the case where independent parties provide ma