local operation.

9.65. 
In particular, in the case of the conversion of a full-fledged distributor 
into,  for  example,  a  limited  risk  distributor  or  commissionnaire,  it  may  be 
important to examine whether the distributor has developed local marketing 
intangibles  over  the  years  prior  to  its  being  restructured  and  if  so,  what 
the  nature  and  the  value  of  these  intangibles  are,  and  whether  they  were 
transferred to an associated enterprise. Where such local intangibles are found 
to  be  in  existence  and  to  be  transferred  to  a  foreign  associated  enterprise, 
the arm’s length principle should apply to determine whether and if so how 
to  compensate  such  a  transfer,  based  on  what  would  be  agreed  between 
independent parties in comparable circumstances. In this regard it is relevant to 
note that the transferor should receive arm’s length compensation (in addition 
to the arm’s length compensation for the transferred intangibles) when after 
the restructuring it continues to perform functions related to the development, 
enhancement, maintenance, protection or exploitation of the local intangible 
transferred (see Section B.2.1 of Chapter VI). On the other hand, where such 
local intangibles are found to be in existence and to remain in the restructured 
entity,  they  should  be  taken  into  account  in  the  functional  analysis  of  the 
post-restructuring  activities.  They  may  accordingly  influence  the  selection 
and application of the most appropriate transfer pricing method for the post-
restructuring controlled transactions, in order that appropriate compensation 
can be determined.3

E.2.4. Contractual rights

9.66.  Contractual  rights  can  be  valuable  intangibles.  Where  valuable 
contractual  rights  are  transferred  (or  surrendered)  between  associated 
enterprises, they should be remunerated at arm’s length, taking account of the 
value of the rights transferred from the perspectives of both the transferor and 
the transferee.

9.67.  Tax administrations have expressed concerns about cases they have 
observed  in  practice  where  an  entity  voluntarily  terminates  a  contract  that 
provided  benefits  to  it,  in  order  to  allow  a  foreign  associated  enterprise  to 

3. 

See  Part  II  of  this  chapter  for  a  discussion  of  the  remuneration  of  the  post-
restructuring arrangements.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 381

enter into a similar contract and benefit from the profit potential attached to it. 
For instance, assume that company A has valuable long-term contracts with 
independent customers that carry significant profit potential for A. Assume 
that at a certain point in time, A voluntarily terminates its contracts with its 
customers under circumstances where the latter are legally or commercially 
obligated to enter into similar arrangements with company B, a foreign entity 
that belongs to the same MNE group as A. As a consequence, the contractual 
rights  and  attached  profit  potential  that  used  to  lie  with  A  now  lie  with  B. 
If the factual situation is that B could only enter into the contracts with the 
customers subject to A’s surrendering its own contractual rights to its benefit, 
and that A only terminated its contracts with its customers knowing that the 
latter were legally or commercially obligated to conclude similar arrangements 
with B, this in substance would consist in a tri-partite transaction and it may 
amount  to  a  transfer  of  valuable  contractual  rights  from  A  to  B  that  may 
have to be remunerated at arm’s length, depending on the value of the rights 
surrendered by A from the perspectives of both A and B.

E.3. Transfer of activity (ongoing concern)

E.3.1. Valuing a transfer of activity

9.68.  Business restructurings sometimes involve the transfer of an ongoing 
concern,  i.e.  a  functioning,  economically  integrated  business  unit.  The 
transfer of an ongoing concern in this context means the transfer of assets, 
bundled with the ability to perform certain functions and assume certain risks. 
Such  functions,  assets  and  risks  may  include,  among  other  things:  tangible 
property and intangibles; liabilities associated with holding certain assets and 
performing certain functions, such as R&D and manufacturing; the capacity 
to carry on the activities that the transferor carried on before the transfer; and 
any resource, capabilities, and rights. The valuation of a transfer of an ongoing 
concern should reflect all the valuable elements that would be remunerated 
between independent parties in comparable circumstances. See Section A.4.6 
of  Chapter  VI.  For  example,  in  the  case  of  a  business  restructuring  that 
involves  the  transfer  of  a  business  unit  that  includes,  among  other  things, 
research  facilities  staffed  with  an  experienced  research  team,  the  valuation 
