is  Agreement,  and  attaching  the  completed 
confidentiality and data safeguard questionnaire attached as Annex 
to this Agreement; and

that  includes  (i)  a  list  of  the  Jurisdictions  of  the  Competent 
Authorities with respect to which it intends to have this Agreement 
in  effect,  following  national  legislative  procedures  for  entry  into 
force (if any) or (ii) a declaration by the Competent Authority that 
it intends to have this Agreement in effect with all other Competent 
Authorities  that  provide  a  notification  under  paragraph  1e)  of 
Section 8.

Competent Authorities must notify the Co-ordinating Body Secretariat, 
promptly,  of  any  subsequent  change  to  be  made  to  any  of  the  above-
mentioned content of the notification.

This  Agreement  will  come  into  effect  between  two  Competent 
2. 
Authorities  on  the  later  of  the  following  dates:  (i)  the  date  on  which  the 
second  of  the  two  Competent  Authorities  has  provided  notification  to  the 
Co-ordinating  Body  Secretariat  under  paragraph  1  that  includes  the  other 
Competent Authority’s Jurisdiction pursuant to subparagraph 1e) and (ii) the 
date on which the Convention has entered into force and is in effect for both 
Jurisdictions.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 577

3. 
The  Co-ordinating  Body  Secretariat  will  maintain  a  list  that  will 
be published on the OECD website of the Competent Authorities that have 
signed the Agreement and between which Competent Authorities this is an 
Agreement  in  effect.  In  addition,  the  Co-ordinating  Body  Secretariat  will 
publish  the  information  provided  by  Competent  Authorities  pursuant  to 
subparagraphs 1a) and b) on the OECD website.

4. 
The  information  provided  pursuant  to  subparagraphs  1c)  through 
e) will be made available to other signatories upon request in writing to the 
Co-ordinating Body Secretariat.

A  Competent  Authority  may  temporarily  suspend  the  exchange  of 
5. 
information  under  this  Agreement  by  giving  notice  in  writing  to  another 
Competent Authority that it has determined that there is or has been significant 
non-compliance  by  the  second-mentioned  Competent  Authority  with  this 
Agreement.  Before  making  such  a  determination,  the  first-mentioned 
Competent Authority shall consult with the other Competent Authority. For the 
purposes of this paragraph, significant non-compliance means non-compliance 
with  paragraphs  1  and  2  of  Section  5  and  paragraph  1  of  Section  6  of  this 
Agreement and/or the corresponding provisions of the Convention, as well as a 
failure by the Competent Authority to provide timely or adequate information 
as  required  under  this  Agreement.  A  suspension  will  have  immediate  effect 
and  will  last  until  the  second-mentioned  Competent  Authority  establishes  in 
a  manner  acceptable  to  both  Competent  Authorities  that  there  has  been  no 
significant non-compliance or that the second-mentioned Competent Authority 
has  adopted  relevant  measures  that  address  the  significant  non-compliance. 
To  the  extent  permitted  by  applicable  law,  either  Competent  Authority  may, 
and if it so wishes through the Co-ordinating Body Secretariat, involve other 
Competent Authorities that have this Agreement in effect with a view to finding 
an acceptable resolution to the issue.

6. 
A  Competent  Authority  may  terminate  its  participation  in  this 
Agreement, or with respect to a particular Competent Authority, by giving 
notice of termination in writing to the Co-ordinating Body Secretariat. Such 
termination  will  become  effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  month  following 
the  expiration  of  a  period  of  12  months  after  the  date  of  the  notice  of 
termination. In the event of termination, all information previously received 
under this Agreement will remain confidential and subject to the terms of the 
Convention.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

578 – ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

SECTION 9
Co-ordinating Body Secretariat

Unless otherwise provided for in the Agreement, the Co-ordinating Body 
Secretariat will notify all Competent Authorities of any notifications that it 
has received under this Agreement and will provide a notice to all signatories 
of the Agreement when a new Competent Authority signs the Agreement.

Done in English and French, both texts being equally authentic.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 579

Annex to the Agreement –  
Confidentiality and Data Safeguards Questionnaire

1. Legal Framework

A  legal  framework  must  ensure  the  confidentiality  of  exchanged 
tax  information  and  limit  its  use  to  appropriate  purposes.