PTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD – 479

to  effectively  meet  customers’  demands  in  a  timely  fashion.  As  a  result 
of  their  broad  experience  in  the  sector,  Company  A  and  Company  B  have 
each  developed  unique  and  valuable  know-how  and  other  intangibles 
in  their  respective  design  and  manufacturing  processes.  In  contrast,  the 
accurate  delineation  of  the  transaction  shows  that  Company  C  does  not 
make any unique and valuable contribution. Instead, Company C performs 
benchmarkable marketing and distribution functions.

60. 
Design  and  manufacturing  are  identified  as  the  key  value  drivers 
for  the  MNE  group  and  the  functional  analysis  shows  the  economically 
significant risks are the strategic and operational risks relating to the design 
and manufacturing functions. Company A and Company B are engaged in 
a  complex  web  of  intragroup  transactions  where  the  performance  of  each 
company heavily depends on the capacity of the other to provide the different 
components  and  other  inputs.  The  manufacturing  and  design  activities  of 
Company  A  and  Company  B  are  highly  interdependent  and  the  entities 
both  perform  relevant  control  functions  in  relation  to  the  economically 
significant risks. In accordance with the risk analysis framework described 
in  Section  D.1.2.1  of  Chapter  I  of  these  Guidelines,  it  is  determined  that 
Company  A  and  Company  B  share  the  assumption  of  the  risks  relating  to 
design  and  manufacturing.  Both  Companies  A  and  B  make  unique  and 
valuable contributions to the manufacturing and design processes.

61. 
Under  these  circumstances,  the  transactional  profit  split  method  is 
likely to be the most appropriate method for determining the compensation 
for Companies A and B in relation to their intra-group transactions. However, 
a  one-sided  transfer  pricing  method  such  as  a  resale  price  method  or  a 
TNMM  is  likely  to  be  the  most  appropriate  to  determine  an  arm’s  length 
return for Company C.

62. 
In applying the transactional profit split method, the sales of products 
in  Countries  A,  B  and  C  should  be  taken  into  account  in  determining  the 
relevant profits to be split. In the case of Country C, this will be calculated by 
reference to the sales revenue of Company C, less the arm’s length return to 
Company C (as established above) for its contributions.

63. 
Under  a  residual  approach  to  the  transactional  profit  split  method, 
the  first  step  of  the  process  would  be  to  determine  an  arm’s  length  return 
for  the  less  complex,  benchmarkable  contributions  of  each  of  the  parties 
(i.e. Companies A and B). These amounts are then deducted from the pool of 
relevant profits to identify the residual profits to be split. Under the second 
step of the residual analysis, the residual profits would then be split between 
Company A and Company B on the basis of their relative contributions to 
those residual profits.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

480 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD

Example 13

Company A, resident in Country A, is the parent company of Retail 
64. 
Group,  an  MNE  group  engaged  in  the  retail  fashion  industry.  Over  the 
years,  Company  A  has  developed  know-how  and  has  enhanced  the  value 
of the trademark and associated goodwill of its business through intensive 
marketing  activities.  In  this  case,  the  intangibles  developed  and  owned  by 
Company A do not qualify as hard-to-value intangibles.

65. 
To  expand  the  business  into  the  Country  B  market,  Company  A 
enters into an agreement with Company B, a member of Retail Group resident 
in Country B. Under this agreement, Company A grants to Company B the 
rights  to  utilise  the  know-how  and  to  use  the  trademarks  for  the  purpose 
of fashion retailing in Country B. Company B has extensive experience in 
retail  fashion  distribution  and  has  a  strong  track  record  in  building  brand 
recognition  and  loyalty  in  Country  B  through  its  in-house  team  which 
develops and implements innovative marketing strategies and activities.

66. 
The  accurate  delineation  of  the  transaction  indicates  that  the 
contributions  of  both  companies  are  unique  and  valuable  to  the  Retail 
Group’s business in Country B.

67. 
In  the  scenarios  presented  below,  the  transactional  profit  split  is 
found to be the most appropriate method for determining the compensation 
for the rights granted by Company A to Company B on the basis that both 
parties to the transaction are making unique and valuable contributions.

Scenario 1

The accurately delineated transaction shows that Company A does 
68. 
not  share  in  the  assumption  of  any  of  the  economically  significant  risks 
associated  with  the  marketing  and  exploitati