 a  primary  level,  the  taxing  rights  that  each  jurisdiction  asserts 
5. 
depend on whether the jurisdiction uses a system of taxation that is residence-
based, source-based, or both. In a residence-based tax system, a jurisdiction 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

12 – PREFACE

will include in its tax base all or part of the income, including income from 
sources outside that jurisdiction, of any person (including juridical persons 
such  as  corporations)  who  is  considered  resident  in  that  jurisdiction.  In  a 
source-based tax system, a jurisdiction will include in its tax base income 
arising  within  its  tax  jurisdiction,  irrespective  of  the  residence  of  the 
taxpayer. As applied to MNEs, these two bases, often used in conjunction, 
generally treat each enterprise within the MNE group as a separate entity. 
OECD member countries have chosen this separate entity approach as  the 
most  reasonable  means  for  achieving  equitable  results  and  minimising  the 
risk of unrelieved double taxation. Thus, each individual group member is 
subject to tax on the income arising to it (on a residence or source basis).

6. 
In order to apply the separate entity approach to intra-group transactions, 
individual group members must be taxed on the basis that they act at arm’s 
length in their transactions with each other. However, the relationship among 
members of an MNE group may permit the group members to establish special 
conditions  in  their  intra-group  relations  that  differ  from  those  that  would 
have  been  established  had  the  group  members  been  acting  as  independent 
enterprises operating in open markets. To ensure the correct application of the 
separate  entity  approach,  OECD  member  countries  have  adopted  the  arm’s 
length principle, under which the effect of special conditions on the levels of 
profits should be eliminated.

7. 
These international taxation principles have been chosen by OECD 
member countries as serving the dual objectives of securing the appropriate 
tax  base  in  each  jurisdiction  and  avoiding  double  taxation,  thereby 
minimising conflict between tax administrations and promoting international 
trade and investment. In a global economy, co-ordination among jurisdictions 
is better placed to achieve these goals than tax competition. The OECD, with 
its  mission  to  contribute  to  the  expansion  of  world  trade  on  a  multilateral, 
non-discriminatory  basis  and  to  achieve  the  highest  sustainable  economic 
growth in member countries, has continuously worked to build a consensus 
on international taxation principles, thereby avoiding unilateral responses to 
multilateral problems.

8. 
The  foregoing  principles  concerning  the  taxation  of  MNEs  are 
incorporated in the OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital 
(OECD  Model  Tax  Convention),  which  forms  the  basis  of  the  extensive 
network  of  bilateral  income  tax  treaties  between  OECD  member  countries 
and between OECD member and non-member countries. These principles also 
are incorporated in the Model United Nations Double Taxation Convention 
between Developed and Developing Nations.

The  main  mechanisms  for  resolving  issues  that  arise  in  the 
9. 
application  of  international  tax  principles  to  MNEs  are  contained  in  these 
bilateral treaties. The Articles that chiefly affect the taxation of MNEs are: 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

PREFACE – 13

Article  4,  which  defines  residence;  Articles  5  and  7,  which  determine  the 
taxation of permanent establishments; Article 9, which relates to the taxation 
of the profits of associated enterprises and applies the arm’s length principle; 
Articles 10, 11, and 12, which determine the taxation of dividends, interest, 
and royalties, respectively; and Articles 24, 25, and 26, which contain special 
provisions  relating  to  non-discrimination,  the  resolution  of  disputes,  and 
exchange of information.

10. 
The Committee on Fiscal Affairs, which is the main tax policy body 
of the OECD, has issued a number of reports relating to the application of 
these Articles to MNEs and to others. The Committee has encouraged the 
acceptance of common interpretations of these Articles, thereby reducing the 
risk of inappropriate taxation and providing satisfactory means of resolving 
problems arising from the interaction of the laws and practices of different 
jurisdictions.

In applying the foregoing principles to the taxation of MNEs, one of 
11. 
the most difficult issues that has arisen is the establishment for tax purposes 
of  appropriate  transfer  prices.  Transfer  prices  are  the  prices  at  which  an 
enterprise transfers physical goods and intangible property or provides services 
to  associated  enterprises.  For  purposes  of  these  Guidelines,  an  “associated 
enterprise” is an enterprise that satisfies the conditions set forth in 