n of the transactions comprising the business 
restructuring: functions, assets and risks before and after the 
restructuring

9.15.  Restructurings  can  take  a  variety  of  different  forms  and  may 
involve  two  or  more  members  of  an  MNE  group.  For  example,  a  simple 
pre-restructuring  arrangement  could  involve  a  full-fledged  manufacturer 
producing goods and selling them to an associated full-fledged distributor for 
on-sale into the market. The restructuring could involve a modification to that 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 363

two-party arrangement, whereby the distributor is converted to a limited risk 
distributor or commissionnaire, with risks previously assumed by the full-
fledged distributor being assumed by the manufacturer (taking into account 
the guidance in Section D.1 of Chapter I. Frequently, the restructuring will be 
more complicated, with functions performed, assets used and risks assumed 
by either or both parties to a pre-restructuring arrangement shifting to one or 
more members of the group.

9.16. 
In order to determine whether, at arm’s length, compensation would 
be payable upon a restructuring to any restructured entity within an MNE 
group, and if so the amount of such compensation as well as the member of 
the group that should bear such compensation, it is important to accurately 
delineate  the  transactions  occurring  between  the  restructured  entity  and 
one  or  more  other  members  of  the  group.  For  these  purposes,  the  detailed 
guidance in Section D of Chapter I of these Guidelines is applicable.

9.17.  Where  the  conditions  of  a  business  restructuring  have  been 
formalised by the MNE group in writing (e.g. written contractual agreements, 
correspondence  and/or  other  communications),  those  agreements  provide 
the  starting  point  for  delineating  the  transactions  comprising  the  business 
restructuring between the MNEs involved. The contractual terms may describe 
the  roles,  responsibilities  and  rights  of  the  restructured  entity  under  the  pre-
restructuring arrangement (including in relevant circumstances those existing 
under contract and commercial law) and of the manner and extent to which those 
rights and obligations change as a result of the restructuring. However, where 
no written terms exist, or where the facts of the case, including the conduct of 
the parties, differ materially from the written terms of any agreement between 
them or supplement these written terms, the actual transactions comprising the 
business restructuring must be deduced from the facts as established, including 
the conduct of the parties (see Section D.1.1 of Chapter I).

9.18.  The accurate delineation of the transactions comprising the business 
restructuring requires performing a functional analysis that seeks to identify 
the economically significant activities and responsibilities undertaken, assets 
used or contributed, and risks assumed before and after the restructuring by 
the parties involved. Accordingly, the analysis focuses on what the parties 
actually do and the capabilities, as well as the type and nature of assets used 
or  contributed  by  the  parties  in  a  pre-restructuring  and  post-restructuring 
scenarios. See Section D.1.2 of Chapter I. Given the importance of risk in the 
analysis of business restructurings, the following section provides specific 
guidance  on  the  analysis  of  risk  in  transactions  comprising  the  business 
restructuring.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

364 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

B.1.1. The analysis of risk in the context of business restructurings

9.19.  Risks  are  of  critical  importance  in  the  context  of  business 
restructurings. Usually, in the open market, the assumption of risk associated 
with a commercial opportunity affects the profit potential of that opportunity, 
and  the  allocation  of  risk  assumed  between  the  parties  to  the  arrangement 
affects  how  profits  or  losses  resulting  from  the  transaction  are  allocated 
through the arm’s length pricing of the transaction. Business restructurings 
often  result  in  local  operations  being  converted  into  low  risk  operations 
(e.g. “low risk distributors”, or “low risk contract manufacturers”) and being 
remunerated with a relatively low (but generally stable) return on the grounds 
that the economically significant risks are assumed by another party to which 
the profits or losses associated with those risks are allocated. For this reason, 
an examination of the allocation of risks between associated enterprises before 
and  after  the  restructuring  is  an  essential  part  of  the  functional  analysis. 
Such analysis should allow tax administrations to assess the transfer of the 
economically  significant  risks  of  the  business  that  is  restructured  and  the 
consequences of that transfer f