

 
 
 
regulations” or “the Regulations”]1. The TP documentation related 
provisions  are  specifically  covered  under  section  92D  read  along 
with  Rule  10D.

1.1.4  Objective  of  transfer  pricing  documentation  (referred  to  as  “the 
Documentation”)  –  The  intent  of  transfer  pricing  regulations  is  to 
prevent  taxpayer  from  entering  into  transaction  with  associated 
enterprises  which  is  not  at  arm’s  length.  Therefore,  the  main 
objective  of  the  regulations  is  that  the  taxpayer  is  required  to 
maintain  appropriate  documentation  at  the  time  of  entering  into 
intercompany transactions to show that the transactions undertaken 
are at arm’s length. Also, upon request, producing such documents 
in  a  timely  manner  to  the  Transfer  Pricing  Officer  (“TPO”)  helps 
the  taxpayer  to  discharge  the  burden  of  proof  cast  upon  him  by 
the  law.

1.1.5  According  to  the  OECD,  following  are  the  main  objectives 
of  transfer  pricing  documentation:

•  To  ensure  that  taxpayers  give  appropriate  consideration 
to  transfer  pricing  requirements  in  establishing  prices 
and other conditions for transactions between associated 
enterprises  and  in  reporting  the  income  derived  from 
such  transactions  in  their  tax  returns;

•  To  provide  tax  administrations  with  the  information 
necessary  to  conduct  an  informed  transfer  pricing  risk 
assessment;  and

•  To  provide  tax  administrations  with  useful  information 
to employ in conducting an appropriately thorough audit 
of  the  transfer  pricing  practices  of  entities  subject  to  tax 
in  their  jurisdiction,  although  it  may  be  necessary  to 
supplement the documentation with additional information 
as  the  audit  progresses.

1.2 

Importance  of  TP  Documentation

1.2.1  Over  the  period,  since  the  time  Indian  transfer  pricing 
regulations  came  into  existence,  the  documentation  has  been  the 

  All  references  to  Sections  are  Sections  contained  in  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961 
1 
unless  otherwise  indicated.  Similarly,  all  references  to  Rules  are  to  Rules  contained  in 
the  Income-tax  Rules,  1962  unless  otherwise  indicated.

I-98

Transfer Pricing – A Compendium 
 
 
Transfer Pricing Documentation and its Critical Importance in Practice

most  crucial  aspect  in  evaluating  the  arm’s  length  nature  of  the 
transaction.  The  Indian  tax  authorities  have  given  due  importance 
to  the  documentation  prepared  and  maintained  by  the  taxpayer 
before  concluding  the  arm’s  length  nature  of  the  inter-company 
transaction.  The  Delhi  High  Court  in  case  of  Maruti  Suzuki  India 
Limited2 held that during transfer pricing proceedings, the revenue 
authority can reject the ALP computed by the taxpayer and determine 
it  only  when  the  revenue  authority  finds  that  the  taxpayer  has 
not  discharged  its  responsibility  of  computing  ALP  in  consonance 
with the relevant provisions of the Act. Therefore, maintaining TP 
documentation  is  important  from  various  perspective  such  as:

a. 
Demonstrate  at  ALP:  The  ultimate  endeavour  of  the 
taxpayer  is  to  demonstrate  that  the  intercompany  transactions  are 
undertaken  in  accordance  with  the  arm’s  length  principle.  Hence, 
in  order  to  demonstrate  intercompany  transactions  to  be  at  ALP, 
the  taxpayer  need  to  document  analysis  undertaken,  assumptions 
made and detailed and methodological search process to substantiate 
comparable  data.

b. 
Discharge  burden  of  Proof:  Prima  facie,  it  provides  an 
assurance  to  the  tax  authorities  that  the  taxpayer  has  maintained 
required documentation as mandated and duly undertaken required 
analysis  to  come  to  conclusion  that  the  intercompany  transaction 
is  at  arm’s  length.

c. 
Syncing  various  TP  documentation  -  Another  important 
aspect is to align the information shared through various compliance 
requirements.  The  taxpayer  needs  to  ensure  that  the  information 
presented  in  Documentation  is  in  sync  with  Form  3CEB  as  well 
as  with  master  file  and  CbC  report.  Further,  wherever  possible  a 
reference  of  specific  clauses  of  master  file  or  CbC  report  can  be 
given  in  the  Documentation  against  relevant  information. 

d. 
Different  regulations  pertaining  to  inter-company  trans-
actions:  The  transfer  pricing  regulations  in  India  co-exist  with  the 
provisions under the Excise and Customs Regulations, the Companies 
Act,  2013  and  the  SEBI  Guidelines.  One  of  the  intents  of  these 
regulations is to ensure transactions between related parties are at 
arm’s length. Hence, the importance of preparation and maintenance 
of  appropriate  documentation  to  demonstrate  arm’s  length  nature 
of  such  transactions  is  manifold.

2 

  W.P.(C)  6876/2008.

I-99

1.3  What  are  t