  e)  will  be  made 
available to other signatories upon request in writing to the Co-ordinating Body Secretariat.

5.  A Competent Authority may temporarily suspend the exchange of information under 
this  Agreement  by  giving  notice  in  writing  to  another  Competent  Authority  that  it  has 
determined that there is or has been significant non-compliance by the second-mentioned 
Competent  Authority  with  this  Agreement.  Before  making  such  a  determination,  the 
first-mentioned  Competent  Authority  shall  consult  with  the  other  Competent  Authority. 
For  the  purposes  of  this  paragraph,  significant  non-compliance  means  non-compliance 
with paragraphs 1 and 2 of Section 5 and paragraph 1 of Section 6 of this Agreement and/
or the corresponding provisions of the Convention, as well as a failure by the Competent 
Authority to provide timely or adequate information as required under this Agreement. A 
suspension will have immediate effect and will last until the second-mentioned Competent 
Authority establishes in a manner acceptable to both Competent Authorities that there has 
been  no  significant  non-compliance  or  that  the  second-mentioned  Competent  Authority 
has adopted relevant measures that address the significant non-compliance. To the extent 
permitted by applicable law, either Competent Authority may, and if it so wishes through 
the  Co-ordinating  Body  Secretariat,  involve  other  Competent  Authorities  that  have  this 
Agreement in effect with a view to finding an acceptable resolution to the issue.

6.  A Competent Authority may terminate its participation in this Agreement, or with 
respect to a particular Competent Authority, by giving notice of termination in writing to 
the Co-ordinating Body Secretariat. Such termination will become effective on the first 
day of the month following the expiration of a period of 12 months after the date of the 
notice of termination. In the event of termination, all information previously received under 
this Agreement will remain confidential and subject to the terms of the Convention.

SECTION 9
Co-ordinating Body Secretariat

Unless otherwise provided for in the Agreement, the Co-ordinating Body Secretariat 
will notify all Competent Authorities of any notifications that it has received under this 
Agreement  and  will  provide  a  notice  to  all  signatories  of  the  Agreement  when  a  new 
Competent Authority signs the Agreement.

Done in English and French, both texts being equally authentic.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

ANNEx Iv TO ChAPTER v. COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 53

Annex to the Agreement – 
Confidentiality and Data Safeguards Questionnaire

1. Legal Framework

A legal framework must ensure the confidentiality of exchanged tax information and 
limit  its  use  to  appropriate  purposes.  The  two  basic  components  of  such  a  framework 
are  the  terms  of  the  applicable  treaty,  Tax  Information  Exchange  Agreement  (TIEA)  or 
other  bilateral  agreement  for  the  exchange  of  information,  and  a  jurisdiction’s  domestic 
legislation.

1.1 Tax Conventions, TIEAs & Other Exchange Agreements

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Provisions in tax treaties, TIEAs and international agreements requiring confidentiality of 

exchanged information and restricting use to intended purposes

How do the exchange of information provisions in your Tax Conventions, TIEAs, or other exchange agreements 
ensure confidentiality and restrict the use of both outgoing information to other Contracting States and incoming 
information received in response to a request?

1.2 Domestic Legislation

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Domestic law must apply safeguards to taxpayer information exchanged pursuant to 
a treaty, TIEA or other international agreement, and treat those information exchange 
agreements as binding, restrict data access and use and impose penalties for violations.

How do your domestic laws and regulations safeguard and restrict the use of information exchanged for tax 
purposes under Tax Conventions, TIEAs, or other exchange instruments? How does the tax administration prevent 
the misuse of confidential data and prohibit the transfer of tax information from the tax administrative body to 
non-tax government bodies?

2. Information Security Management

The  information  security  management  systems  used  by  each  jurisdiction’s  tax 
administration  must  adhere  to  standards  that  ensure  the  protection  of  confidential 
taxpayer  data.  For  example,  there  must  be  a  screening  process  for  employees  handling 
the  information,  limits  on  who  can  access  the  information,  and  systems  to  detect  and 
trace  unauthorized  disclosures.  The  internationally  accepted  standards  for  information 
security  are  known  as  the  “ISO/IEC  27000-series”.  As  described  more  fully  below,  a 
tax  administratio