fferences may refer, for instance, to situations where the functional 
analysis  indicates  that  a  captive  insurance  performs  less  functions  than  a 
commercial insurer (e.g. a captive insurance that only insures internal risks 
within  the  MNE  group  may  not  need  to  perform  distribution  and  sales 
functions).  Similarly,  differences  between  the  captive  insurance  and  the 
potential comparables in business volume or in the level of capital between 
the  captive  insurance  and  unrelated  parties  may  require  comparability 
adjustments (see paragraph 10.221).

10.219.  Alternatively,  actuarial  analysis  may  be  an  appropriate  method  to 
independently  determine  the  premium  likely  to  be  required  at  arm’s  length 
for insurance of a particular risk. In setting prices for an insurance premium, 
an insurer will seek to cover its expected losses on claims, its costs associated 
with writing and administering policies and dealing with claims, plus a profit 
to provide a return on capital, taking into account any investment income it 
expects to receive on the excess of premiums received less claims and expenses 
paid. The practical application of actuarial analysis may be a complex exercise. 
In  evaluating  the  reliability  of  actuarial  analysis  to  determine  the  arm’s 
length price of premiums it is important to note that actuarial analyses do not 
represent actual transactions between independent parties and that, therefore, 
comparability adjustments would be likely required.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 449

E.3.2. Combined ratio and return on capital

10.220.  The  remuneration  of  the  captive  insurance  can  be  arrived  at  by 
considering the arm’s length profitability of the captive insurance by reference 
to  a  two  staged  approach  which  takes  into  account  both  profitability  of 
claims and return on capital. The first step would be to identify the captive 
insurance’s combined ratio. This can be determined by expressing claims and 
expenses payable as a percentage of premiums receivable. The benchmarked 
combined  ratio  achieved  by  unrelated  insurance  companies  indemnifying 
similar insurance risks can be identified. The benchmarked combined ratio 
can then be applied to the tested party’s claims and expenses paid to arrive 
at an arm’s length measure of annual premiums and thus underwriting profit 
(premiums receivable less claims and expenses). The second step is to assess 
the  investment  return  achieved  by  the  captive  insurance  against  an  arm’s 
length return. This step requires two further considerations: (a) the amount 
of  capital  held  by  the  captive  insurance,  and  (b)  to  the  extent  to  which  the 
captive  insurance  invests  in  controlled  investments  (e.g.  intra-group  bonds, 
loans, etc.), the rate of investment return achieved by the captive insurance 
on  those  investments.  The  sum  of  underwriting  profit  from  step  one  and 
investment income from step two gives total operating profit (see Section B.5 
of Chapter III on multiple year data).

10.221.  It is important to recognise that the capital adequacy requirements of 
a captive insurance are likely to be significantly lower than an insurer writing 
policies for unrelated parties. This factor should be considered and, if necessary, 
adjusted for in order to determine the appropriate level of capital to use when 
calculating  the  investment  return.  Differences  in  capital  adequacy  between 
captive insurance and arm’s length insurers typically arise because of regulatory 
and  commercial  factors.  Insurance  regulators  frequently  set  lower  regulatory 
capital  requirements  for  captive  insurances.  A  primary  commercial  driver 
for arm’s length insurers is capital efficiency. In order to attract investors and 
customers, arm’s length insurers will target a strong credit rating by holding 
a level of operating capital which is in excess of the regulatory minimum. At 
the same time, arm’s length insurers will attempt to maximise their return on 
capital results. They will try to hold the optimum amount of capital to meet these 
opposing drivers. Captive insurances have no commercial imperative to seek a 
credit rating nor to optimise their return on capital in order to attract investors. 
Reasonable adjustments may need to be made to ensure that the comparable 
investment return is restricted to the capital that the captive insurance needs 
under relevant regulatory requirements (plus a reasonable operating buffer to 
minimise the possibility of inadvertently breaching the regulatory requirement) 
to accept the insurance risk rather than the level of capital that might be needed 
by an independent insurer. Adjustments may be needed to account for differing 
capital  adequacy  requirements  between  different  regulators  and  different 
categories of insurance business.

OECD TRANS