ricing target would be established by 
a tax authority, subject to a taxpayer’s right to demonstrate that its transfer 
price  is  consistent  with  the  arm’s  length  principle.  Under  such  a  system, 
it  would  be  essential  that  the  taxpayer  does  not  bear  a  higher  burden  to 
demonstrate its price is consistent with the arm’s length principle than it would 
if no such system were in place. In any such system, it would be essential to 
permit resolution of cases of double taxation arising from application of the 
mandatory presumption through the mutual agreement process.

E.3.  Benefits of safe harbours
4.105.  The basic benefits of safe harbours are as follows:

1.  Simplifying compliance and reducing compliance costs for eligible 
taxpayers in determining and documenting appropriate conditions for 
qualifying controlled transactions;

2.  Providing  certainty  to  eligible  taxpayers  that  the  price  charged  or 
paid on qualifying controlled transactions will be accepted by the tax 
administrations that have adopted the safe harbour with a limited audit 
or without an audit beyond ensuring the taxpayer has met the eligibility 
conditions of, and complied with, the safe harbour provisions;

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

206 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

3.  Permitting tax administrations to redirect their administrative resources 
from  the  examination  of  lower  risk  transactions  to  examinations  of 
more complex or higher risk transactions and taxpayers.

E.3.1. Compliance relief

4.106.  Application of the arm’s length principle may require collection and 
analysis of data that may be difficult or costly to obtain and/or evaluate. In 
certain cases, such compliance burdens may be disproportionate to the size of 
the taxpayer, its functions performed, and the transfer pricing risks inherent 
in its controlled transactions.

4.107.  Properly  designed  safe  harbours  may  significantly  ease  compliance 
burdens  by  eliminating  data  collection  and  associated  documentation 
requirements  in  exchange  for  the  taxpayer  pricing  qualifying  transactions 
within the parameters set by the safe harbour. Especially in areas where transfer 
pricing risks are small, and the burden of compliance and documentation is 
disproportionate  to  the  transfer  pricing  exposure,  such  a  trade-off  may  be 
mutually  advantageous  to  taxpayers  and  tax  administrations.  Under  a  safe 
harbour,  taxpayers  would  be  able  to  establish  transfer  prices  which  will  not 
be  challenged  by  tax  administrations  providing  the  safe  harbour  without 
being obligated to search for comparable transactions or expend resources to 
demonstrate transfer pricing compliance to such tax administrations.

E.3.2. Certainty
4.108.  Another advantage provided by a safe harbour is the certainty that the 
taxpayer’s transfer prices will be accepted by the tax administration providing 
the  safe  harbour,  provided  they  have  met  the  eligibility  conditions  of,  and 
complied  with,  the  safe  harbour  provisions.  The  tax  administration  would 
accept,  with  limited  or  no  scrutiny,  transfer  prices  within  the  safe  harbour 
parameters.  Taxpayers  could  be  provided  with  relevant  parameters  which 
would provide a transfer price deemed appropriate by the tax administration 
for the qualifying transaction.

E.3.3. Administrative simplicity

4.109.  A safe harbour would result in a degree of administrative simplicity 
for  the  tax  administration.  Although  the  eligibility  of  particular  taxpayers 
or  transactions  for  the  safe  harbour  would  need  to  be  carefully  evaluated, 
depending on the specific safe harbour provision, such evaluations would not 
necessarily have to be performed by auditors with transfer pricing expertise. 
Once eligibility for the safe harbour has been established, qualifying taxpayers 
would  require  minimal  examination  with  respect  to  the  transfer  prices  of 
controlled transactions qualifying for the safe harbour. This would enable tax 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 207

administrations to secure tax revenues in low risk situations with a limited 
commitment of administrative resources and to concentrate their efforts on 
the examination of more complex or higher risk transactions and taxpayers. A 
safe harbour may also increase the level of compliance among small taxpayers 
that may otherwise believe their transfer pricing practices will escape scrutiny.

E.4.  Concerns over safe harbours

4.110.  The availability of safe harbours for a given category of taxpayers or 
transactions may have adverse consequences. These concerns stem from the 
fact that:

1.  The implementation of a safe harbour in a given jurisdiction may lead 
to taxable income being reported that is not in accordance with the 
arm’s length principle;

2.  Safe harbours may increa