usly performed by 
B), or another party in the MNE group benefitting from the restructuring. The 
analysis should start from the accurate delineation of the actual transactions 
comprising  the  business  restructuring,  and  take  into  account  economically 
related transactions with other enterprises in the MNE group that may help to 
delineate the controlled transaction (see paragraphs 1.36-1.38).

9.95.  There  can  be  situations  where  A  would  be  willing  to  bear  the 
indemnification  costs  at  arm’s  length,  for  instance  because  it  expects  that 
the termination of its agreement with B will make it possible for it to derive 
costs savings through its new manufacturing agreement with C, and that the 
present value of these expected costs savings is greater than the amount of 
the indemnification.

9.96.  There can be situations where C would be willing to pay an up-front 
fee  to  obtain  the  rights  to  the  manufacturing  contract  from  A,  e.g.  if  the 
present value of the expected profits to be derived from its new manufacturing 
contract makes it worth the investment for C. In such situations, the payment 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

390 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

by C might be organised in a variety of ways, for instance it might be that C 
would be paying A, or that C would be constructively paying A by meeting 
A’s indemnification obligation to B. It is also possible that C would pay B, for 
example, in the circumstances where B had certain rights and C would pay B 
for the transfer of those rights.

9.97.  There can be cases where at arm’s length A and C would be willing 
to share the indemnification costs. In cases where the benefits arising from 
the restructuring accrue to another party in the MNE group, then that other 
party may bear the costs of indemnification, either directly or indirectly.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 391

Part II: Remuneration of post-restructuring 
controlled transactions

A. Business restructurings versus “structuring”

A.1.  General principle: no different application of the arm’s length 

principle

9.98.  The arm’s length principle and these Guidelines do not and should not 
apply differently to post-restructuring transactions as opposed to transactions 
that  were  structured  as  such  from  the  beginning.  Doing  otherwise  would 
create a competitive distortion between existing players who restructure their 
activities and new entrants who implement the same business model without 
having to restructure their business.

9.99.  Comparable situations must be treated in the same way, regardless of 
whether or not they came into existence as a result of a business restructuring 
of a previously existing structure. The selection and practical application of 
an appropriate transfer pricing method must be based on the economically 
relevant characteristics of the transaction leading to the accurate delineation 
of the actual transaction.

9.100.  However, business restructuring situations involve change, and the 
arm’s  length  principle  must  be  applied  not  only  to  the  post-restructuring 
transactions,  but  also  to  additional  transactions  that  comprise  the  business 
restructuring. The application of the arm’s length principle to those additional 
transactions is discussed in Part I of this chapter.

9.101. 
In  addition,  the  comparability  analysis  of  an  arrangement  that 
results from a business restructuring might reveal some factual differences 
compared to the one of an arrangement that was structured as such from the 
beginning,  as  discussed  below.  These  factual  differences  do  not  affect  the 
arm’s length principle or the way the guidance in these Guidelines should be 
interpreted and applied, but they may affect the comparability analysis and 
therefore the outcome of this application. See Section D on comparing the 
pre- and post-restructuring situations.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

392 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

A.2.  Possible factual differences between situations that result from 
a restructuring and situations that were structured as such 
from the beginning

9.102.  Where  an  arrangement  between  associated  enterprises  replaces  an 
existing  arrangement  (restructuring),  there  may  be  factual  differences  in 
the  starting  position  of  the  restructured  entity  compared  to  the  position  of 
a newly set up operation. Sometimes, the post-restructuring arrangement is 
negotiated  between  parties  that  have  had  prior  contractual  and  commercial 
relationships. In such a situation, depending on the facts and circumstances 
of  the  case  and  in  particular  on  the  rights  and  obligations  derived  by  the 
parties from these prior arrangements, this may affect the options realistically 
available to the parties in negotiating the terms of the new arrangement and 
t