ined by agreeing a method 
for avoiding the risk of double taxation in advance. This requires the exercise 
of judgement and the need to balance the efficient use of limited resources, 
both financial and human, with the desire to reduce the likelihood of double 
taxation. Tax administrations might consider the following items as relevant:

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS – 521

a)  Does  the  methodology  and  the  other  terms  and  conditions  of 
the  proposal  respect  the  guidance  given  by  the  Guidelines?  If 
not, it will be desirable to get the taxpayer to revise the proposal 
accordingly, in order to increase the chances of reaching a mutual 
agreement.  As  paragraph  17  of  the  preface  to  the  Guidelines 
states  “these  guidelines  are  also  intended  primarily  to  govern 
the  resolution  of  transfer  pricing  cases  in  mutual  agreement 
proceedings”.

b)  Are  any  “difficulties  or  doubts  as  to  the  interpretation  or 
application of the Convention” likely to significantly increase the 
risk of double taxation and so justify the use of resources to settle 
any problems in advance of the proposed transactions?

c)  Would  the  transactions  covered  by  the  proposal  be  ongoing  in 
nature and is there a significant part of any limited life project 
left?

d)  Are the transactions in question seriously contemplated and not 
of a purely hypothetical nature? The process should not be used 
to find out the likely views of the tax administration on a general 
point of principle – there are other established methods for doing 
this in many jurisdictions.

e)  Is a transfer pricing audit already in progress in relation to past 
years  where  the  fact  pattern  was  substantially  similar?  If  so, 
the outcome of the audit may be expedited by participating in a 
MAP APA, the terms of which could then be applied to inform 
or  resolve  the  audit  and  any  unresolved  mutual  agreement  for 
earlier years.

B.3. Multilateral MAP APAs
21. 
The desire for certainty has resulted in an emerging trend for taxpayers 
to seek multilateral MAP APAs covering their global operations. The taxpayer 
approaches  each  of  the  affected  jurisdictions  with  an  overall  proposal  and 
suggests  that  it  would  be  desirable  if  the  negotiations  be  conducted  on  a 
multilateral basis involving all the affected jurisdictions, rather than by a series 
of separate negotiations with each tax authority. It should be noted that there is 
no multilateral method of implementing any agreement that may be reached, 
except by concluding a series of separate bilateral MAP APAs. The successful 
negotiation  of  a  series  of  bilateral  MAP  APAs  in  this  way  would  provide 
greater  certainty  and  lower  costs  to  the  MNE  group  than  if  separate  MAP 
APAs were undertaken bilaterally and in isolation of each other.

22. 
Although, as described above, there are potential benefits to having 
multilateral  MAP  APAs,  a  number  of  issues  need  to  be  considered.  First, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

522 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS

it is unlikely to be appropriate for a single transfer pricing methodology to 
be applied to the wide variety of facts and circumstances, transactions and 
jurisdictions likely to be the subject of a multilateral MAP APA, unless the 
methodology can be appropriately adapted to reflect the particular facts and 
circumstances found in each jurisdiction. Therefore, care would need to be 
taken by all the participating jurisdictions to ensure that the methodology, 
even  after  such  adaptation,  represented  a  proper  application  of  the  arm’s 
length principle in the conditions found in their jurisdiction.

23. 
Second,  issues  also  arise  because  under  a  multilateral  MAP  APA 
several competent authorities are effectively involved in a process that was 
designed for a bilateral process. One issue is the extent to which it may be 
necessary  to  exchange  information  between  all  the  affected  jurisdictions. 
This could be problematic in cases where there are no transaction flows or 
common transactions between two or more of the affected treaty partners, 
so creating doubts as to whether the information is relevant to the particular 
bilateral  MAP  APA  being  discussed.  However,  in  cases  where  similar 
transactions  are  conducted  by  different  parts  of  the  MNE  or  in  which  the 
area considered relates to trading on an integrated basis, there may be a need 
to  have  information  about  flows  between  other  parties  in  order  to  be  able 
to  understand  and  evaluate  the  flows  that  are  the  subject  of  the  particular 
bilateral  MAP  APA.  Another  problem  is  that  it  may  be  difficult  to  judge 
whether such information is indeed relevant prior to obtaining it.

Further, even if the information is relevant