nufacturing, selling or service 
activities comparable to the ones provided by the restructured affiliate. Given 
the recent development of outsourcing activities, it may be possible in some 
cases to find independent outsourcing transactions that provide a basis for using 
the CUP method in order to determine the arm’s length remuneration of post-
restructuring controlled transactions. This of course is subject to the condition 
that the outsourcing transactions qualify as uncontrolled transactions and that 
the review of the five economically relevant characteristics or comparability 
factors  provides  sufficient  comfort  that  either  no  material  difference  exists 
between the conditions of the uncontrolled outsourcing transactions and the 
conditions  of  the  post-restructuring  controlled  trans actions,  or  that  reliable 
enough adjustments can be made (and are effectively made) to eliminate such 
differences.
9.112.  Whenever a comparable is proposed, it is important to ensure that 
a  comparability  analysis  of  the  controlled  and  uncontrolled  transactions  is 
performed in order to identify material differences, if any, between them and, 
where necessary and possible, to adjust for such differences. In particular, 
the comparability analysis might reveal that the restructured entity continues 
to  perform  valuable  and  significant  functions  and/or  the  presence  of  local 
intangibles  and/or  of  economically  significant  risks  that  remain  in  the 
“stripped”  entity  after  the  restructuring  but  are  not  found  in  the  proposed 
comparables. See Section A on the possible differences between restructured 
activities and start-up situations.
9.113.  The identification of potential comparables has to be made with the 
objective of finding the most reliable comparables data in the circumstances 
of the case, keeping in mind the limitations that may exist in availability of 
information and the compliance costs involved (see paragraphs 3.2 and 3.80). 
It is recognised that the data will not always be perfect. There are also cases 
where comparables data are not found, for instance where the restructuring 
has  led  to  fragmentation  of  integrated  functions  across  several  group 
companies in a way that is not found between unrelated parties. This does not 
necessarily mean that the conditions of the controlled transaction as accurately 
delineated are not arm’s length. Notwithstanding the difficulties that can arise 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

396 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

in the process of searching comparables, it is necessary to find a reasonable 
solution to all transfer pricing cases. Following the guidance in paragraph 2.2, 
even in cases where comparables data are scarce and imperfect, the choice of 
the most appropriate transfer pricing method to the circumstances of the case 
should be consistent with the nature of the controlled transaction, determined 
in particular through a functional analysis.

C.  Relationship between compensation for the restructuring and post-

restructuring remuneration

9.114.  There may in some circumstances be an important inter-relationship 
between the compensation for the restructuring and an arm’s length reward 
for operating the business post-restructuring. This can be the case where a 
taxpayer  disposes  of  business  operations  to  an  associated  enterprise  with 
which it must then transact business as part of those operations. One example 
of such a relationship is found in paragraph 9.74 regarding outsourcing.

9.115.  Another  example  would  be  where  a  taxpayer  that  operates  a 
manufacturing  and  distribution  activity  restructures  by  disposing  of  its 
distribution activity to a foreign associated enterprise to which the taxpayer will 
in the future sell the goods it manufactures. The foreign associated enterprise 
would expect to be able to earn an arm’s length reward for its investment in 
acquiring  and  operating  the  business.  In  this  situation,  the  taxpayer  might 
agree with the foreign associated enterprise to forgo receipt of part or all of the 
up-front  compensation  for  the  business  that  may  be  payable  at  arm’s  length, 
and instead obtain comparable financial benefit over time through selling its 
goods  to  the  foreign  associated  enterprise  at  prices  that  are  higher  than  the 
latter  would  otherwise  agree  to  if  the  up-front  compensation  had  been  paid. 
Alternatively, the parties might agree to set an up-front compensation payment 
for the restructuring that is partly offset through future lower transfer prices for 
the manufactured products than would have been set otherwise. See Part I of this 
chapter for a discussion of situations where compensation would be payable at 
arm’s length for the restructuring itself.

9.116. 
In  other  words,  in  this  situation  where  the  taxpayer  will  have  an 
ongoing business relation