 on data extracted from the balance sheets of the parties to the 
transaction. It will often be the case that not all the assets of the taxpayers 
relate to the transaction at hand and that accordingly some analytical work 
is  needed  for  the  taxpayer  to  draw  up  a  “transactional”  balance  sheet  that 
will  be  used  for  the  application  of  the  transactional  profit  split  method. 
In  addition,  certain  assets,  such  as  self-developed  intangibles,  may  not  be 
reflected  on  the  balance  sheet  at  all,  and  accordingly  must  be  separately 
evaluated. In this regard, valuation techniques, such as those based on the 
discounted value of projected future income streams or cash flows derived 
from  the  exploitation  of  the  intangible  may  be  useful.  See  Section  D.2.6.3 
of Chapter VI of these guidelines. See also paragraph 2.104 for a discussion 
of valuation of assets in the context of the transactional net margin method 
where  the  net  profit  is  weighted  to  assets,  which  is  also  relevant  to  the 
valuation of assets in the context of a transactional profit split where an asset-
based profit splitting factor is used.

2.176.  Similarly, where cost-based profit splitting factors are used that are 
based on data extracted from the taxpayers’ profit and loss accounts, it may 
be necessary to draw up transactional accounts that identify those expenses 
that are related to the controlled transaction at hand and those that should be 
excluded  from  the  determination  of  the  profit  splitting  factor.  The  type  of 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 145

expenditure that is taken into account (e.g. salaries, depreciation, etc.) as well 
as the criteria used to determine whether a given expense is related to the 
transaction at hand or is rather related to other transactions of the taxpayer 
(e.g. to other lines of products not subject to this profit split determination) 
should be applied consistently to all the parties to the transaction.

2.177. 
Internal  data  may  also  be  helpful  where  the  profit  splitting  factor 
is  based  on  a  cost  accounting  system,  e.g.  employee  costs  related  to  some 
aspects of the transaction, or time spent by a certain group of employees on 
certain tasks, etc.

2.178.  Internal  data  are  essential  to  assess  the  values  of  the  respective 
contributions of the parties to the controlled transaction. The determination 
of  such  values  should  rely  on  a  functional  analysis  that  takes  into  account 
all  the  economically  significant  functions,  assets  and  risks  contributed  by 
the  parties  to  the  controlled  transaction.  In  those  cases  where  the  profit 
is  split  on  the  basis  of  an  evaluation  of  the  relative  importance  of  the 
functions, assets and risks to the value added to the controlled transaction, 
such  evaluation  should  be  supported  by  reliable  objective  data  in  order  to 
limit arbitrariness. Particular attention should be given to the identification 
of  the  relevant  contributions  of  unique  and  valuable  intangibles  and  the 
assumption of economically significant risks and the importance, relevance 
and measurement of the factors which gave rise to these.

C.5.3. Examples of profit splitting factors

C.5.3.1. Asset-based profit splitting factors

2.179.  Asset-based  or  capital-based  profit  splitting  factors  can  be  used 
where  there  is  a  strong  correlation  between  tangible  assets  or  intangibles, 
or  capital  employed  and  creation  of  value  in  the  context  of  the  controlled 
transaction. In order for a profit splitting factor to be meaningful, it should be 
applied consistently to all the parties to the transaction. See paragraph 2.104 
for a discussion of comparability issues in relation to asset valuation in the 
context  of  the  transactional  net  margin  method,  which  is  also  valid  in  the 
context of the transactional profit split method. Example 15 in Annex II to 
this chapter illustrates the principles of this section.

2.180.  Where  one  or  more  of  the  parties  to  a  transaction  for  which  the 
transactional profit split method is found to be the most appropriate makes 
a  contribution  in  the  form  of  intangibles,  difficult  issues  can  arise  in 
relation both to their identification and to their valuation. Guidance on the 
identification  and  valuation  of  intangibles  is  found  at  Chapter  VI  of  these 
Guidelines. See also the examples in Annex I to Chapter VI “Examples to 
illustrate the guidance on intangibles.”

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

146 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

C.5.3.2. Cost-based profit splitting factors

2.181.  A  profit  splitting  factor  based  on  expenses  may  be  appropriate 
where it is possible to identify a strong correlation between relative expenses 
incurred  and  relative  value  co