ndependent 
enterprises engaging in a comparable transaction or transactions. The method 
first identifies the profits to be split from the controlled transactions – the 
relevant  profits  –  and  then  splits  them  between  the  associated  enterprises 
on  an  economically  valid  basis  that  approximates  the  division  of  profits 
that would have been agreed at arm’s length. As is the case with all transfer 
pricing methods, the aim is to ensure that profits of the associated enterprises 
are aligned with the value of their contributions and the compensation which 
would  have  been  agreed  in  comparable  transactions  between  independent 
enterprises  for  those  contributions.  The  transactional  profit  split  method 
is  particularly  useful  when  the  compensation  to  the  associated  enterprises 
can  be  more  reliably  valued  by  reference  to  the  relative  shares  of  their 
contributions to the profits arising in relation to the transaction(s) than by a 
more direct estimation of the value of those contributions.

2.115.  References to “profits” in this section should generally be taken as 
applying equally to losses. That is, where a transactional profit split method 
is  determined  to  be  the  most  appropriate  method,  it  should  generally  also 
apply,  and  apply  in  the  same  way,  regardless  of  whether  the  transaction(s) 
result in a relevant profit or loss. Asymmetrical splits of profits and losses 
(i.e. where the parties apply different considerations depending on the results 
of the transaction) might be arm’s length, but should be used with caution and 
appropriately documented.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 129

C.2.  When is a transactional profit split method likely to be the most 

appropriate method?

2.116.  As  is  noted  in  paragraph  2.2,  the  selection  of  a  transfer  pricing 
method always aims at finding the most appropriate method for a particular 
case,  taking  into  account  the  respective  strengths  and  weaknesses  of  each 
method, its appropriateness in view of the nature of the accurately delineated 
controlled transaction, the availability of reliable information (in particular 
on  uncontrolled  comparables)  needed  for  application,  and  the  degree  of 
comparability between the controlled and uncontrolled transactions. See also 
paragraphs 2.4 to 2.7.

2.117.  Guidance on how to determine whether the transactional profit split 
method is likely to be the most appropriate method is set out below, including 
the identification of certain features of a transaction which may be relevant. 
However it is important to note that there is no prescriptive rule for establishing 
when a particular transfer pricing method is the most appropriate method.

2.118.  While  there  is  no  requirement  in  these  Guidelines  to  undertake 
exhaustive  analysis  or  testing  of  every  method  in  each  case,  the  selection 
of  the  most  appropriate  method  should  take  into  account  the  relative 
appropriateness and reliability of the selected method as compared to other 
methods which could be used.

C.2.1. Strengths and weaknesses of the transactional profit split method

2.119.  The main strength of the transactional profit split method is that it 
can offer a solution for cases where both parties to a transaction make unique 
and valuable contributions (e.g. contribute unique and valuable intangibles) 
to the transaction. In such a case independent parties might effectively price 
the  transaction  in  proportion  to  their  respective  contributions,  making  a 
two-sided method more appropriate. Furthermore, since those contributions 
are  unique  and  valuable  there  will  be  no  reliable  comparables  information 
which could be used to price the entirety of the transaction in a more reliable 
way, through the application of another method. In such cases, the allocation 
of  profits  under  the  transactional  profit  split  method  may  be  based  on  the 
contributions made by the associated enterprises, by reference to the relative 
values of their respective functions, assets and risks. See Section C.2.2 below 
on the nature of the transaction.

2.120.  The transactional profit split method can also provide a solution for 
highly integrated operations in cases for which a one-sided method would not 
be appropriate. See Section C.2.2.2, below.

2.121.  Another  strength  of  the  transactional  profit  split  method  is  that  it 
can offer flexibility by taking into account specific, possibly unique, facts 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

130 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

and  circumstances  of  the  associated  enterprises  that  may  not  be  present 
in  independent  enterprises.  Moreover,  where  there  is  a  high  degree  of 
uncertainty for each of the parties in relation to a transaction, for example 
in transactions involving the sh