assumption of risk, since there is no longer 
any risk. Similarly, ex post reallocations of risk by a tax administration when 
risk outcomes are certain may, unless based on the guidance elsewhere in these 
Guidelines and in particular Section D.1.2.1, be inappropriate.

1.79. 
It  is  economically  neutral  to  take  on  (or  lay  off)  risk  in  return  for 
higher  (or  lower)  anticipated  nominal  income  as  long  as  the  net  present 
value  of  both  options  are  equal.  Between  unrelated  parties,  for  example, 
the sale of a risky income-producing asset may reflect in part a preference 
of the seller to accept a lower but more certain amount of nominal income 
and to forego the possibility of higher anticipated nominal income it might 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

58 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

earn if it instead retained and exploited the asset. In a without-recourse debt 
factoring  arrangement  between  independent  enterprises,  for  example,  the 
seller discounts the face value of its receivables in return for a fixed payment, 
and so accepts a lower return but has reduced its volatility and laid off risk. 
The factor will often be a specialised organisation which has the capability to 
decide to take on risk and to decide on how to respond to the risk, including 
by diversifying the risk and having the functional capabilities to mitigate the 
risk and generate a return from the opportunity. Neither party will expect to 
be worse off as a result of entering into the arrangement, essentially because 
they  have  different  risk  preferences  resulting  from  their  capabilities  in 
relation to the specific risk. The factor is more capable of managing the risk 
than the seller and terms acceptable to both parties can be agreed.

1.80.  However,  it  does  not  follow  that  every  contractual  exchange  of 
potentially higher but riskier income for lower but less risky income between 
associated enterprises is automatically arm’s length. The rest of the steps set 
out in this section describe the information required to determine how the 
associated enterprises operate in relation to the assumption and management 
of risk leading to the accurate delineation of the actual transaction in relation 
to risk.

1.81.  The assumption of risk has a significant effect on determining arm’s 
length pricing between associated enterprises, and it should not be concluded 
that  the  pricing  arrangements  adopted  in  the  contractual  arrangements 
alone  determine  which  party  assumes  risk.  Therefore,  one  may  not  infer 
from  the  fact  that  the  price  paid  between  associated  enterprises  for  goods 
or services is set at a particular level, or by reference to a particular margin, 
that risks are borne by those associated enterprises in a particular manner. 
For example, a manufacturer may claim to be protected from the risk of price 
fluctuation  of  raw  material  as  a  consequence  of  its  being  remunerated  by 
another group company on a basis that takes account of its actual costs. The 
implication of the claim is that the other group company bears the risk. The 
form of remuneration cannot dictate inappropriate risk allocations. It is the 
determination of how the parties actually manage and control risks, as set out 
in the remaining steps of the process of analysing risk, which will determine 
the assumption of risks by the parties, and consequently dictate the selection 
of the most appropriate transfer pricing method.

D.1.2.1.3. Step 3: Functional analysis in relation to risk

1.82. 
In  this  step  the  functions  in  relation  to  risk  of  the  associated 
enterprises  that  are  parties  to  the  transaction  are  analysed.  The  analysis 
provides information about how the associated enterprises operate in relation 
to the assumption and management of the specific, economically significant 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 59

risks, and in particular about which enterprise or enterprises perform control 
functions  and  risk  mitigation  functions,  which  enterprise  or  enterprises 
encounter  upside  or  downside  consequences  of  risk  outcomes,  and  which 
enterprise or enterprises have the financial capacity to assume the risk. This 
step is illustrated by the following examples and conclusions are drawn from 
these examples in subsequent paragraphs of Section D.1.2.

Example 1

1.83.  Company A seeks to pursue a development opportunity and hires a 
specialist company, Company B, to perform part of the research on its behalf. 
Under step 1 development risk has been identified as economically significant 
in  this  transaction,  and  under  step  2  it  has  been  established  that  under  the 
contract Company A assumes development risk. The functional analysis under 
step 3 shows that Company A controls its development risk through exercising 
its capability and authority i