of  its  MNE  group  may  suggest  to  the 
taxpayers or tax administrations that the transfer pricing should be examined. 
The  loss  enterprise  may  not  be  receiving  adequate  compensation  from  the 
MNE group of which it is a part in relation to the benefits derived from its 
activities. For example, an MNE group may need to produce a full range of 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

78 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

products and/or services in order to remain competitive and realise an overall 
profit, but some of the individual product lines may regularly lose revenue. 
One  member  of  the  MNE  group  might  realise  consistent  losses  because  it 
produces  all  the  loss-making  products  while  other  members  produce  the 
profit-making  products.  An  independent  enterprise  would  perform  such  a 
service only if it were compensated by an adequate service charge. Therefore, 
one  way  to  approach  this  type  of  transfer  pricing  problem  would  be  to 
deem the loss enterprise to receive the same type of service charge that an 
independent enterprise would receive under the arm’s length principle.

1.151.  A factor to consider in analysing losses is that business strategies may 
differ from MNE group to MNE group due to a variety of historic, economic, 
and cultural reasons. Recurring losses for a reasonable period may be justified 
in  some  cases  by  a  business  strategy  to  set  especially  low  prices  to  achieve 
market  penetration.  For  example,  a  producer  may  lower  the  prices  of  its 
goods, even to the extent of temporarily incurring losses, in order to enter new 
markets, to increase its share of an existing market, to introduce new products 
or  services,  or  to  discourage  potential  competitors.  However,  especially  low 
prices should be expected for a limited period only, with the specific object 
of  improving  profits  in  the  longer  term.  If  the  pricing  strategy  continues 
beyond a reasonable period, a transfer pricing adjustment may be appropriate, 
particularly where comparable data over several years show that the losses have 
been incurred for a period longer than that affecting comparable independent 
enterprises.  Further,  tax  administrations  should  not  accept  especially  low 
prices (e.g. pricing at marginal cost in a situation of underemployed production 
capacities)  as  arm’s  length  prices  unless  independent  enterprises  could  be 
expected to have determined prices in a comparable manner.

D.4.  The effect of government policies

1.152.  There  are  some  circumstances  in  which  a  taxpayer  will  consider 
that  an  arm’s  length  price  must  be  adjusted  to  account  for  government 
interventions such as price controls (even price cuts), interest rate controls, 
controls over payments for services or management fees, controls over the 
payment of royalties, subsidies to particular sectors, exchange control, anti-
dumping duties, or exchange rate policy. As a general rule, these government 
interventions should be treated as conditions of the market in the particular 
jurisdiction,  and  in  the  ordinary  course  they  should  be  taken  into  account 
in  evaluating  the  taxpayer’s  transfer  price  in  that  market.  The  question 
then  presented  is  whether  in  light  of  these  conditions  the  transactions 
undertaken by the controlled parties are consistent with transactions between 
independent enterprises.

1.153.  One issue that arises is determining the stage at which a price control 
affects the price of a product or service. Often the direct impact will be on the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 79

final price to the consumer, but there may nonetheless be an impact on prices 
paid at prior stages in the supply of goods to the market. MNEs in practice 
may  make  no  adjustment  in  their  transfer  prices  to  take  account  of  such 
controls, leaving the final seller to suffer any limitation on profit that may 
occur, or they may charge prices that share the burden in some way between 
the final seller and the intermediate supplier. It should be considered whether 
or not an independent supplier would share in the costs of the price controls 
and whether an independent enterprise would seek alternative product lines 
and business opportunities. In this regard, it is unlikely that an independent 
enterprise  would  be  prepared  to  produce,  distribute,  or  otherwise  provide 
products  or  services  on  terms  that  allowed  it  no  profit.  Nevertheless,  it  is 
quite obvious that a jurisdiction with price controls must take into account 
that  those  price  controls  will  affect  the  profits  that  can  be  realised  by 
enterprises selling goods subject to those controls.

1.154.  A special problem arises when a jurisdiction prevents or “blocks” the 
payment of an amount which is owed by one associated enterpri