UIDELINES © OECD 2022

PREFACE – 15

17. 
These Guidelines are also intended primarily to govern the resolution 
of  transfer  pricing  cases  in  mutual  agreement  proceedings  between  OECD 
member  countries  and,  where  appropriate,  arbitration  proceedings.  They 
further provide guidance when a corresponding adjustment request has been 
made. The Commentary on paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax 
Convention makes clear that the State from which a corresponding adjustment 
is requested should comply with the request only if that State “considers that 
the figure of adjusted profits correctly reflects what the profits would have been 
if  the  transactions  had  been  at  arm’s  length”.  This  means  that  in  competent 
authority proceedings the State that has proposed the primary adjustment bears 
the burden of demonstrating to the other State that the adjustment “is justified 
both in principle and as regards the amount.” Both competent authorities are 
expected to take a co-operative approach in resolving mutual agreement cases.

18. 
In seeking to achieve the balance between the interests of taxpayers 
and  tax  administrators  in  a  way  that  is  fair  to  all  parties,  it  is  necessary  to 
consider all aspects of the system that are relevant in a transfer pricing case. 
One such aspect is the allocation of the burden of proof. In most jurisdictions, 
the tax administration bears the burden of proof, which may require the tax 
administra tion  to  make  a  prima  facie  showing  that  the  taxpayer’s  pricing 
is  inconsistent  with  the  arm’s  length  principle.  It  should  be  noted,  however, 
that even in such a case a tax administration might still reasonably oblige the 
taxpayer to produce its records to enable the tax administration to undertake its 
examination of the controlled transactions. In other jurisdictions the taxpayer 
may bear the burden of proof in some respects. Some OECD member countries 
are of the view that Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax Convention establishes 
burden  of  proof  rules  in  transfer  pricing  cases  which  override  any  contrary 
domestic provisions. Other countries, however, consider that Article 9 does not 
establish burden of proof rules (cf. paragraph 4 of the Commentary on Article 9 
of  the  OECD  Model  Tax  Convention).  Regardless  of  which  party  bears  the 
burden of proof, an assessment of the fairness of the allocation of the burden of 
proof would have to be made in view of the other features of the jurisdiction’s 
tax system that have a bearing on the overall administration of transfer pricing 
rules,  including  the  resolution  of  disputes.  These  features  include  penalties, 
examination  practices,  administrative  appeals  processes,  rules  regarding 
payment  of  interest  with  respect  to  tax  assessments  and  refunds,  whether 
proposed  tax  deficiencies  must  be  paid  before  protesting  an  adjustment,  the 
statute of limitations, and the extent to which rules are made known in advance. 
It would be inappropriate to rely on any of these features, including the burden 
of proof, to make unfounded assertions about transfer pricing. Some of these 
issues are discussed further in Chapter IV.

These  Guidelines  focus  on  the  main  issues  of  principle  that  arise 
19. 
in  the  transfer  pricing  area.  The  Committee  on  Fiscal  Affairs  intends 
to  continue  its  work  in  this  area.  A  revision  of  Chapters  I-III  and  a  new 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

16 – PREFACE

Chapter  IX  were  approved  in  2010,  reflecting  work  undertaken  by  the 
Committee  on  comparability,  on  transactional  profit  methods  and  on  the 
transfer pricing aspects of business restructurings. In 2013, the guidance on 
safe harbours was also revised in order to recognise that properly designed 
safe  harbours  can  help  to  relieve  some  compliance  burdens  and  provide 
taxpayers with greater certainty. In 2016, these Guidelines were substantially 
revised in order to reflect the clarifications and revisions agreed in the 2015 
BEPS Reports on Actions 8-10 Aligning Transfer pricing Outcomes with Value 
Creation and on Action 13 Transfer Pricing Documentation and Country-by-
Country Reporting. In 2018, a revision of the guidance on the application of 
the profit split method in Chapter II was approved, as well as the addition of a 
new annex to Chapter VI which provides guidance for tax administrations on 
the application of the approach to hard-to-value intangibles. Finally, in 2020 a 
new Chapter X was added to these Guidelines to incorporate guidance on the 
transfer  pricing  aspects  of  financial  transactions.  The  Committee  intends  to 
have regular reviews of the experiences of OECD member and selected non-
member countries in applying the arm’s length principle in order to identify 
areas on which further work could be necessary.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OEC