l over the investment risk in the tangible asset, since it lacks any 
capability to decide on whether to invest in the particular asset, and whether 
and how to protect its investment including whether to dispose of the asset. 
Although it is the owner of the asset, Company A does not exercise control 
over  the  utilisation  risk,  since  it  lacks  any  capability  to  decide  whether  and 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 61

how  to  exploit  the  asset.  It  does  not  have  the  capability  to  assess  and  make 
decisions  relating  to  the  risk  mitigation  activities  performed  by  other  group 
companies. Instead, risks associated with investing in and exploiting the asset, 
enhancing upside risk and mitigating downside risk, are controlled by the other 
group  companies.  Company  A  does  not  have  control  over  the  economically 
significant  risks  associated  with  the  investment  in  and  exploitation  of  the 
asset. The functional contribution of the legal owner of the asset is limited to 
providing financing for an amount equating to the cost of the asset. However, 
the  functional  analysis  also  provides  evidence  that  Company  A  has  no 
capability  and  authority  to  control  the  risk  of  investing  in  a  financial  asset. 
Company A does not have the capability to make decisions to take on or decline 
the  financing  opportunity,  or  the  capability  to  make  decisions  on  whether 
and  how  to  respond  to  the  risks  associated  with  the  financing  opportunity. 
Company A does not perform functions to evaluate the financing opportunity, 
does not consider the appropriate risk premium and other issues to determine 
the appropriate pricing of the financing opportunity, and does not evaluate the 
appropriate protection of its financial investment. Companies A, B and C all 
have financial capacity to assume their respective risks.

D.1.2.1.4. Step 4: Interpreting steps 1-3

1.86.  Carrying out steps 1-3 involves the gathering of information relating 
to  the  assumption  and  management  of  risks  in  the  controlled  transaction. 
The next step is to interpret the information resulting from steps 1-3 and to 
determine whether the contractual assumption of risk is consistent with the 
conduct of the parties and the other facts of the case by analysing (i) whether 
the associated enterprises follow the contractual terms under the principles of 
Section D.1.1; and (ii) whether the party assuming risk, as analysed under (i), 
exercises control over the risk and has the financial capacity to assume risk.

1.87.  The  significance  of  step  4  will  depend  on  the  findings.  In  the 
circumstances  of  Examples  1  and  2  above,  the  step  may  be  straightforward. 
Where a party contractually assuming a risk applies that contractual assumption 
of risk in its conduct, and also both exercises control over the risk and has the 
financial capacity to assume the risk, then there is no further analysis required 
beyond  step  4(i)  and  (ii)  to  determine  risk  assumption.  Companies  A  and  B 
in both examples fulfil the obligations reflected in the contracts and exercise 
control over the risks that they assume in the transaction, supported by financial 
capacity. As a result step 4(ii) is satisfied, there is no need to consider step 5, and 
the next step to consider is step 6.

1.88. 
In  line  with  the  discussion  in  relation  to  contractual  terms  (see 
Section  D.1.1),  it  should  be  considered  under  step  4(i)  whether  the  parties’ 
conduct conforms to the assumption of risk contained in written contracts, 
or whether the contractual terms have not been followed or are incomplete. 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

62 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

Where  differences  exist  between  contractual  terms  related  to  risk  and  the 
conduct  of  the  parties  which  are  economically  significant  and  would  be 
taken into account by third parties in pricing the transaction between them, 
the parties’ conduct in the context of the consistent contractual terms should 
generally be taken as the best evidence concerning the intention of the parties 
in relation to the assumption of risk.

1.89.  Consider  for  example,  a  manufacturer,  whose  functional  currency 
is  US  dollars,  that  sells  goods  to  an  associated  distributor  in  another 
jurisdiction,  whose  functional  currency  is  euros,  and  the  written  contract 
states that the distributor assumes all exchange rate risks in relation to this 
controlled transaction. If, however, the price for the goods is charged by the 
manufacturer to the distributor over an extended period of time in euros, the 
currency of the distributor, then aspects of the written contractual terms do 
not reflect the actual commercial or financial relations between the parties. 
The assumption of risk in the transaction should be d