ent licensees with similar long-term licensing agreements 
undertake  and  incur  for  their  own  benefit,  resulting  in  significantly  lower 
anticipated profit margins for Company S than those of comparable enterprises.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 615

45. 
Based  on  these  facts,  Company  S  should  be  compensated  with  an 
additional return for the market development functions it performs, the assets 
it uses and the risks it assumes. For years 1 through 3, the possible bases for 
such  an  adjustment  would  be  as  described  in  Example  10.  For  years  4  and 
5  the  bases  for  an  adjustment  would  be  similar,  except  that  the  adjustment 
could reduce the royalty payments from Company S to Primair, rather than 
the purchase price of the watches. Depending on the facts and circumstances, 
consideration could also be given to whether Company S should have received 
compensation in connection with the renegotiation of the arrangement at the 
end of year 3 in accordance with the guidance in Part II of Chapter IX.

Example 14

46. 
Shuyona  is  the  parent  company  of  an  MNE  group.  Shuyona  is 
organised in and operates in Country X. The Shuyona group is involved in the 
production and sale of consumer goods. In order to maintain and, if possible, 
improve its market position, ongoing research is carried out by the Shuyona 
group to improve existing products and develop new products. The Shuyona 
group maintains two R&D centres, one operated by Shuyona in Country X 
and the other operated by Company S, a subsidiary of Shuyona operating in 
Country y. The Shuyona R&D centre is responsible for the overall research 
programme of Shuyona group. The Shuyona R&D centre designs research 
programmes,  develops  and  controls  budgets,  makes  decisions  as  to  where 
R&D activities will be conducted, monitors the progress on all R&D projects 
and,  in  general,  controls  the  R&D  function  for  the  MNE  group,  operating 
under strategic direction of Shuyona group senior management.

47. 
The  Company  S  R&D  centre  operates  on  a  separate  project  by 
project  basis  to  carry  out  specific  projects  assigned  by  the  Shuyona  R&D 
centre. Suggestions of Company S R&D personnel for modifications to the 
research programme are required to be formally approved by the Shuyona 
R&D centre. The Company S R&D centre reports on its progress on at least 
a  monthly  basis  to  supervisory  personnel  at  the  Shuyona  R&D  centre.  If 
Company S exceeds budgets established by Shuyona for its work, approval 
of  Shuyona  R&D  management  must  be  sought  for  further  expenditures. 
Contracts between the Shuyona R&D centre and the Company S R&D centre 
specify that Shuyona will bear all risks and costs related to R&D undertaken 
by  Company  S.  All  patents,  designs  and  other  intangibles  developed  by 
Company  S  research  personnel  are  registered  by  Shuyona,  pursuant  to 
contracts between the two companies. Shuyona pays Company S a service 
fee for its research and development activities.

48. 
The  transfer  pricing  analysis  of  these  facts  would  begin  by 
recognising  that  Shuyona  is  the  legal  owner  of  the  intangibles.  Shuyona 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

616 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES

controls  and  manages  both  its  own  R&D  work  and  that  of  Company  S.  It 
performs  the  important  functions  related  to  that  work  such  as  budgeting, 
establishing  research  programmes,  designing  projects  and  funding  and 
controlling expenditures. Under these circumstances, Shuyona is entitled to 
returns  derived  from  the  exploitation  of  the  intangibles  developed  through 
the R&D efforts of Company S. Company S is entitled to compensation for 
its functions performed, assets used, and risks assumed. In determining the 
amount of compensation due Company S, the relative skill and efficiency of 
the Company S R&D personnel, the nature of the research being undertaken, 
and other factors contributing to value should be considered as comparability 
factors. To the extent transfer pricing adjustments are required to reflect the 
amount a comparable R&D service provider would be paid for its services, 
such adjustments would generally relate to the year the service is provided 
and  would  not  affect  the  entitlement  of  Shuyona  to  future  returns  derived 
from exploiting intangibles derived from the Company S R&D activities.

Example 15

49. 
Shuyona is the parent company of an MNE group. Shuyona is organised 
in and operates exclusively in Country X. The Shuyona group is involved in the 
production and sale of consumer goods. In order to maintain and, if possible, 
improve  its  market  position,  ongoing  research  is  carried  out  by  the  Shuyona 
group  to  improve  existing  products  and  develop  new  products.  The  Shuyona