ssue  in  relation  to  the  combination  of  intangibles.  See  also 
Example 9 in Annex II to Chapter II.

C.2.2.3.  Shared assumption of economically significant risks, separate 

assumption of closely related risks

2.139.  A transactional profit split may be found to be the most appropriate 
method  where,  according  to  the  accurately  delineated  transaction,  each 
party  to  the  controlled  transaction  shares  the  assumption  of  one  or  more 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 135

of  the  economically  significant  risks  in  relation  to  that  transaction  (see 
paragraph 1.95).

2.140.  A transactional profit split may also be found to be the most appropriate 
method where, according to the accurately delineated transaction, the various 
economically  significant  risks  in  relation  to  the  transaction  are  separately 
assumed  by  the  parties,  but  those  risks  are  so  closely  inter-related  and/or 
correlated that the playing out of the risks of each party cannot reliably be 
isolated. See Example 10 in Annex II to Chapter II.

2.141.  The relevance of this factor as an indicator for the transactional profit 
split method will depend in large measure on the extent to which the risks 
concerned are economically significant such that a share of relevant profits 
would be warranted for each party. The economic significance of the risks 
should be analysed in relation to their importance to the actual or anticipated 
relevant profits from the controlled transaction(s), rather than in respect of 
their  importance  to  any  one  of  the  associated  enterprises  whose  business 
operations may extend beyond those covered by the relevant profits.

2.142.  If each party shares the assumption of economically significant risks 
or  separately  assumes  inter-related,  economically  significant  risks,  and  a 
transactional  profit  split  is  considered  to  be  the  most  appropriate  method, 
it is likely that a split of actual profits, rather than anticipated profits, will 
be  warranted  since  those  actual  profits,  i.e.  the  actual  relevant  profits  to 
be split, will reflect the playing out of the risks of each party. Conversely, 
a  profit  split  of  anticipated  profits  will  tend  to  concentrate  the  playing  out 
of economically significant risks on one party. That is, the transfer pricing 
outcome – a sharing of actual or anticipated profits – should align with the 
accurate delineation of the transaction. See Section C.4.1 below on splits of 
actual and anticipated profits.

C.2.3. Availability of reliable information

2.143. 
In  general,  it  will  tend  to  be  the  case  that  the  presence  of  factors 
indicating  that  a  transactional  profit  split  is  the  most  appropriate  method 
will  correspond  to  an  absence  of  factors  indicating  that  an  alternative 
transfer pricing method – one which relies entirely on comparables – is the 
most appropriate method, determined in accordance with paragraph 2.2 of 
these  Guidelines.  Put  another  way,  if  information  on  reliable  comparable 
uncontrolled transactions is available to price the transaction in its entirety, 
it  is  less  likely  that  the  transactional  profit  split  method  will  be  the  most 
appropriate method. However, a lack of comparables alone is insufficient to 
warrant the use of a transactional profit split. See paragraph 2.128.

2.144.  While the transactional profit split method can be applied in cases where 
there are no uncontrolled comparables, information from trans actions between 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

136 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

independent parties may still be relevant to the application of the method, for 
example to guide the splitting of relevant profits (see Section C.3.1.1), or where 
a residual analysis approach is used (see Section C.3.1.2).

C.2.4. Conclusions

2.145.  This section has described certain characteristics of the transactional 
profit split method and provided a number of potential indicators as to when 
it  may  be  found  to  be  the  most  appropriate  method,  as  well  as  a  number 
of factors which may point in the opposite direction. The guidance in this 
regard does not seek to be comprehensive, nor is it prescriptive. The presence 
or  absence  of  one  or  more  of  the  indicators  described  in  this  section  will 
not necessarily lead to the conclusion that the transactional profit split will 
(or will not) be the most appropriate method in a particular case. Each case 
needs to be analysed on its own facts, and it will be important to consider the 
relative merits and shortcomings of available transfer pricing methods.

C.3.  Guidance for application – in general

2.146.  These  Guidelines  do  not  seek  to  provide  an  exhaustive  catalogue 
of  ways  in  which  the  transactional  profit  split  method  may  be  applied. 
Applicat