.

10.90.  The  widespread  existence  of  markets  for  borrowing  and  lending 
money  and  the  frequency  of  such  transactions  between  independent 
borrowers  and  lenders,  coupled  with  the  widespread  availability  of 
information  and  analysis  of  loan  markets  may  make  it  easier  to  apply 
the  CUP  method  to  financial  transactions  than  may  be  the  case  for  other 
types  of  transactions.  Information  available  often  includes  details  on  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

422 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

characteristics of the loan and the credit rating of the borrower or the rating 
of the specific issuance. Characteristics which will usually increase the risk 
for the lender, such as long maturity dates, absence of security, subordination, 
or application of the loan to a risky project, will tend to increase the interest 
rate. Characteristics which limit the lender’s risk, such as strong collateral, a 
high quality guarantee, or restrictions on future behaviour of the borrower, 
will tend to result in a lower interest rate.

10.91.  The arm’s length interest rate for a tested loan can be benchmarked 
against  publicly  available  data  for  other  borrowers  with  the  same  credit 
rating  for  loans  with  sufficiently  similar  terms  and  conditions  and  other 
comparability  factors.  With  the  extent  of  competition  often  present  within 
lending markets, it might be expected that, given the characteristics of the 
loan (amount, maturity, currency, etc.) and the credit rating of the borrower 
or the rating of the specific issuance (see Section  C.1.1.2.), there would be 
a  single  rate  at  which  the  borrower  could  obtain  funds  and  a  single  rate 
at  which  a  lender  could  invest  funds  to  obtain  an  appropriate  reward.  In 
practice, however, there is unlikely to be a single “market rate” but a range 
of rates although competition between lenders and the availability of pricing 
information will tend to narrow the range.

10.92.  In the search for comparability data, a comparable is not necessarily 
restricted  to  a  stand-alone  entity.  In  examining  commercial  loans,  where 
the  potentially  comparable  borrower  is  a  member  of  an  MNE  group  and 
has borrowed from an independent lender, provided all other economically 
relevant conditions are sufficiently similar, a loan to a member of a different 
MNE group or between members of different MNE groups could be a valid 
comparable.

10.93.  Arm’s length interest rates can also be based on the return of realistic 
alternative transactions with comparable economic characteristics. Depending 
on the facts and circumstances, realistic alternatives to intra-group loans could 
be, for instance, bond issuances, loans which are uncontrolled transactions, 
deposits,  convertible  debentures,  commercial  papers,  etc.  In  the  evaluation 
of those alternatives as potential comparables it is important to bear in mind 
that,  based  on  facts  and  circumstances,  comparability  adjustments  may  be 
required to eliminate the material effects of differences between the controlled 
intra-group loan and the selected alternative in terms of, for instance, liquidity, 
maturity, existence of collateral or currency.

10.94.  When considering issues of comparability, the possibility of internal 
CUPs should not be overlooked.

10.95.  Whereas it is unlikely that an MNE group’s average interest rate paid 
on its external debt meets the comparability requirements to be considered 
as an internal CUP, it may be possible to identify potential comparable loans 
within  the  borrower’s  or  its  MNE  group’s  financing  with  an  independent 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 423

lender as the counterparty. As with external CUPs, it may be necessary to 
make appropriate adjustments to improve comparability. See Example 1 at 
1.164-1.166.

C.1.2.2. Loan fees and charges

10.96.  In  considering  arm’s  length  pricing  of  loans,  the  issue  of  fees  and 
charges  in  relation  to  the  loan  may  arise.  Independent  commercial  lenders 
will sometimes charge fees as part of the terms and conditions of the loan, 
for example arrangement fees or commitment fees in relation to an undrawn 
facility. If such charges are seen in a loan between associated enterprises, they 
should be evaluated in the same way as any other intra-group transaction. In 
doing so, it must be borne in mind that independent lenders’ charges will in 
part reflect costs incurred in the process of raising capital and in satisfying 
regulatory requirements, which associated enterprises might not incur.

C.1.2.3. Cost of funds

10.97.  In the absence of comparable uncontrolled transactions, the cost of 
funds  approach  could  be  used  as  an  alternative  to  price  intra-group  loans 
in some  circumstances. The cost of funds  will  reflect  the borrowing 