 location  of  principal  R&D 
facilities and location of R&D management.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

 
26 – ANNEx I TO ChAPTER v. TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION – MASTER FILE

•  A list of intangibles or groups of intangibles of the MNE group that are important 

for transfer pricing purposes and which entities legally own them.

•  A list of important agreements among identified associated enterprises related to 
intangibles, including  cost  contribution  arrangements,  principal research service 
agreements and licence agreements.

•  A general description of the group’s transfer pricing policies related to R&D and 

intangibles.

•  A general description of any important transfers of interests in intangibles among 
associated  enterprises  during  the  fiscal  year  concerned,  including  the  entities, 
countries, and compensation involved.

MNE’s intercompany financial activities

•  A general description of how the group is financed, including important financing 

arrangements with unrelated lenders.

•  The  identification  of  any  members  of  the  MNE  group  that  provide  a  central 
financing function for the group, including the country under whose laws the entity 
is organised and the place of effective management of such entities.

•  A  general  description  of  the  MNE’s  general  transfer  pricing  policies  related  to 

financing arrangements between associated enterprises.

MNE’s financial and tax positions

•  The MNE’s annual consolidated financial statement for the fiscal year concerned 
if otherwise prepared for financial reporting, regulatory, internal management, tax 
or other purposes.

•  A list and brief description of the MNE group’s existing unilateral advance pricing 
agreements (APAs) and other tax rulings relating to the allocation of income among 
countries.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

ANNEx II TO ChAPTER v. TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION – LOCAL FILE – 27

Annex II to Chapter V 

Transfer pricing documentation – Local file

The following information should be included in the local file:

Local entity

•  A description of the management structure of the local entity, a local organisation 
chart, and a description of the individuals to whom local management reports and 
the country(ies) in which such individuals maintain their principal offices.

•  A detailed description of the business and business strategy pursued by the local 
entity  including  an  indication  whether  the  local  entity  has  been  involved  in  or 
affected  by  business  restructurings  or  intangibles  transfers  in  the  present  or 
immediately  past  year  and  an  explanation  of  those  aspects  of  such  transactions 
affecting the local entity.

•  Key competitors.

Controlled transactions

For each material category of controlled transactions in which the entity is involved, 

provide the following information:

•  A  description  of  the  material  controlled  transactions  (e.g.  procurement  of 
manufacturing services, purchase of goods, provision of services, loans, financial 
and performance guarantees, licences of intangibles, etc.) and the context in which 
such transactions take place.

•  The amount of intra-group payments and receipts for each category of controlled 
transactions  involving  the  local  entity  (i.e.  payments  and  receipts  for  products, 
services,  royalties,  interest,  etc.)  broken  down  by  tax  jurisdiction  of  the  foreign 
payor or recipient.

•  An identification of associated enterprises involved in each category of controlled 

transactions, and the relationship amongst them.

•  Copies of all material intercompany agreements concluded by the local entity.

•  A  detailed  comparability  and  functional  analysis  of  the  taxpayer  and  relevant 
associated  enterprises  with  respect  to  each  documented  category  of  controlled 
transactions, including any changes compared to prior years.1

•  An indication of the most appropriate transfer pricing method with regard to the 

category of transaction and the reasons for selecting that method.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

 
28 – ANNEx II TO ChAPTER v. TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION – LOCAL FILE

•  An  indication  of  which  associated  enterprise  is  selected  as  the  tested  party,  if 

applicable, and an explanation of the reasons for this selection.

•  A summary of the important assumptions made in applying the transfer pricing 

methodology.

• 

If relevant, an explanation of the reasons for performing a multi-year analysis.

•  A list and description of selected comparable uncontrolled transactions (internal or 
external), if any, and information on relevant financial indicators for independent 
enterprises relied on in the transfer pricing analysis, including a description of the 
comparable search methodology and the source of s