rcial 
or financial relations between the parties. The controlled transactions may 
have  been  formalised  in  written  contracts  which  may  reflect  the  intention 
of the parties at the time the contract was concluded in relation to aspects 
of  the  transaction  covered  by  the  contract,  including  in  typical  cases  the 
division of responsibilities, obligations and rights, assumption of identified 
risks,  and  pricing  arrangements.  Where  a  transaction  has  been  formalised 
by the associated enterprises through written contractual agreements, those 
agreements provide the starting point for delineating the transaction between 
them  and  how  the  responsibilities,  risks,  and  anticipated  outcomes  arising 
from their interaction were intended to be divided at the time of entering into 
the contract. The terms of a transaction may also be found in communications 
between the parties other than a written contract.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 43

1.43.  However,  the  written  contracts  alone  are  unlikely  to  provide  all  the 
information  necessary  to  perform  a  transfer  pricing  analysis,  or  to  provide 
information  regarding  the  relevant  contractual  terms  in  sufficient  detail. 
Further information will be required by taking into consideration evidence of 
the  commercial  or  financial  relations  provided  by  the  economically  relevant 
characteristics in the other four categories (see paragraph 1.36): the functions 
performed  by  each  of  the  parties  to  the  transaction,  taking  into  account 
assets  used  and  risks  assumed,  together  with  the  characteristics  of  property 
transferred  or  services  provided,  the  economic  circumstances  of  the  parties 
and  of  the  market  in  which  the  parties  operate,  and  the  business  strategies 
pursued by the parties. Taken together, the analysis of economically relevant 
characteristics in all five categories provides evidence of the actual conduct 
of the associated enterprises. The evidence may clarify aspects of the written 
contractual  arrangements  by  providing  useful  and  consistent  information.  If 
the  contract  neither  explicitly  nor  implicitly  (taking  into  account  applicable 
principles of contract interpretation) addresses characteristics of the transaction 
that are economically relevant, then any information provided by the contract 
should  be  supplemented  for  purposes  of  the  transfer  pricing  analysis  by  the 
evidence provided by identifying those characteristics.

1.44.  The  following  example  illustrates  the  concept  of  clarifying  and 
supplementing  the  written  contractual  terms  based  on  the  identification 
of  the  actual  commercial  or  financial  relations.  Company  P  is  the  parent 
company of an MNE group situated in Country P. Company S, situated in 
Country S, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Company P and acts as an agent 
for  Company  P’s  branded  products  in  the  Country  S  market.  The  agency 
contract between Company P and Company S is silent about any marketing 
and  advertising  activities  in  Country  S  that  the  parties  should  perform. 
Analysis  of  other  economically  relevant  characteristics  and  in  particular 
the functions performed, determines that Company S launched an intensive 
media  campaign  in  Country  S  in  order  to  develop  brand  awareness.  This 
campaign  represents  a  significant  investment  for  Company  S.  Based  on 
evidence provided by the conduct of the parties, it could be concluded that the 
written contract may not reflect the full extent of the commercial or financial 
relations between the parties. Accordingly, the analysis should not be limited 
by the terms recorded in the written contract, but further evidence should be 
sought as to the conduct of the parties, including as to the basis upon which 
Company S undertook the media campaign.

1.45. 
If the characteristics of the transaction that are economically relevant 
are inconsistent with the written contract between the associated enterprises, 
the actual transaction should generally be delineated for purposes of the transfer 
pricing  analysis  in  accordance  with  the  characteristics  of  the  transaction 
reflected in the conduct of the parties.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

44 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

1.46. 
In  transactions  between  independent  enterprises,  the  divergence  of 
interests between the parties ensures (i) that contractual terms are concluded 
that reflect the interests of both of the parties, (ii) that the parties will ordinarily 
seek to hold each other to the terms of the contract, and (iii) that contractual 
terms will be ignored or modified after the fact generally only if it is in the 
interests  of  both  parties.  The  same  divergence  of  interests  may  not  exist  in 
the case of associated enterp