ice improved. 
However, the general guidance to the business community encourages them 
to identify problematic issues which may be suitable for further analysis and 
the Working Party will be able to take account of this input when making its 
final selection of issues for the revised peer review.

21. 
It is also envisaged that once an issue or a country has been selected 
by  the  Working  Party  for  further  review,  the  BIAC  will  be  notified  of  the 
decision  so  that  they  have  the  opportunity  to  comment.  If  the  issue  is  one 
originally  identified  by  the  BIAC  –  particularly  in  the  context  of  issue 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

460 – ANNEX: MONITORING PROCEDURES

reviews  –  they  would  be  kept  informed  of  the  Working  Party’s  discussion 
on these issues and asked, if necessary, to provide additional clarification. 
However, a further role for the BIAC in the peer review process beyond that 
already described is not contemplated at the moment.

C.2.  Identification and analysis of difficult case paradigms and the 

development of examples

22. 
The  difficult  case  paradigms  are  intended  to  illustrate  issues  and 
situations where the Guidelines provide no or inadequate guidance. Practical 
examples  when  complete  will  be  inserted  into  the  Guidelines  to  provide 
illustrations  of  particular  principles.  There  is  a  clear  role  for  the  business 
community  in  assisting  in  the  development  of  paradigms  or  examples  by 
contributing the practical experience of their members. The Working Party 
will ask for comments on both the difficult case paradigms and the practical 
examples  at  regular  stages  in  their  development.  BIAC  may  also  initiate 
paradigms or examples, provided the caveats in paragraph 17 of this annex 
are followed so that there can be no question of the process being used to 
resolve a particular transfer pricing case.

C.3. Updates of legislation and practice

23. 
The  aim  of  this  element  in  the  monitoring  process  is  to  keep  the 
member  countries  informed  about  developments  in  each  others’  countries. 
There  are  usually  well  established  ways  at  the  national  level  by  which  the 
business community can make an input into any developments in the transfer 
pricing  legislation,  regulations  and  administrative  practices  of  a  member 
country. At the level of the OECD, the BIAC will have an opportunity to bring 
to the attention of the Working Party changes in legislation or practices in both 
member  and  non-member  countries,  which  it  considered  were  inconsistent 
with the Guidelines or which it felt could give rise to practical problems in 
terms of implementation without, of course, referring to individual cases.

The input from the BIAC will be discussed at the regular joint meetings 

24. 
between the BIAC and the Working Party.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER II: SENSITIVITy OF GROSS AND NET PROFIT INDICATORS – 461

Annex I to Chapter II 

Sensitivity of gross and net profit indicators

See Chapter II, Part III, Section B of these Guidelines for general guidance on the 
application of the transactional net margin method.

The assumptions about arm’s length arrangements in the following examples are 
intended  for  illustrative  purposes  only  and  should  not  be  taken  as  prescribing 
adjustments and arm’s length arrangements in actual cases of particular industries. 
While they seek to demonstrate the principles of the sections of the Guidelines to 
which they refer, those principles must be applied in each case according to the 
specific facts and circumstances of that case.

Furthermore,  the  comments  below  relate  to  the  application  of  a  transactional 
net  margin  method  in  the  situations  where,  given  the  facts  and  circumstances 
of  the  case  and  in  particular  the  comparability  (including  functional)  analysis 
of  the  transaction  and  the  review  of  the  information  available  on  uncontrolled 
comparables, such a method is found to be the most appropriate method to be used.

It  is  recognised  that  the  transactional  net  margin  method  can  be 
1. 
less sensitive to some differences in the characteristics of products than the 
comparable  uncontrolled  price  or  resale  price  methods.  In  practice  when 
applying the transactional net margin method a greater emphasis is generally 
placed on functional comparability than on the characteristics of products. 
The transactional net margin method can however be less sensitive to some 
differences  in  functions  which  are  reflected  in  variations  in  operating 
expenses as illustrated below.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
462 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER II: SENSITIVITy OF GROSS AND NET PROFIT INDICATORS

Illustration 1: Effect of a difference in the extent and complexity of the 
marketing function performed by a di