he  taxpayer  is  found  not  to 
have acted in good faith, for example, by not co-operating or complying with 
reasonable documentation requests or by filing false or misleading returns. 
In other jurisdictions, the burden of proof is on the taxpayer. In this respect, 
however, the conclusions of paragraphs 4.16 and 4.17 should be noted.

4.12.  The implication for the behaviour of the tax administration and the 
taxpayer of the rules governing burden of proof should be taken into account. 
For  example,  where  as  a  matter  of  domestic  law  the  burden  of  proof  is  on 
the  tax  administration,  the  taxpayer  may  not  have  any  legal  obligation  to 
prove  the  correctness  of  its  transfer  pricing  unless  the  tax  administration 
makes a prima facie showing that the pricing is inconsistent with the arm’s 
length principle. Even in such a case, of course, the tax administration might 
still reasonably oblige the taxpayer to produce its records that would enable 
the tax administration to undertake its examination. In some jurisdictions, 
taxpayers  have  a  duty  to  co-operate  with  the  tax  administration  imposed 
on  them  by  law.  In  the  event  that  a  taxpayer  fails  to  co-operate,  the  tax 
administration may be given the authority to estimate the taxpayer’s income 
and  to  assume  relevant  facts  based  on  experience.  In  these  cases,  tax 
administrations should not seek to impose such a high level of co-operation 
that would make it too difficult for reasonable taxpayers to comply.

4.13. 
In  jurisdictions  where  the  burden  of  proof  is  on  the  taxpayer,  tax 
administrations  are  generally  not  at  liberty  to  raise  assessments  against 
taxpayers  which  are  not  soundly  based  in  law.  A  tax  administration  in 
a  jurisdiction  that  applies  the  arm’s  length  principle,  for  example,  could 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 177

not  raise  an  assessment  based  on  a  taxable  income  calculated  as  a  fixed 
percentage  of  turnover  and  simply  ignore  the  arm’s  length  principle.  In 
the context of litigation in jurisdictions where the burden of proof is on the 
taxpayer, the burden of proof is often seen as a shifting burden. Where the 
taxpayer presents to a court a reasonable argument and evidence to suggest 
that its transfer pricing was arm’s length, the burden of proof may legally or 
de facto shift to the tax administration to counter the taxpayer’s position and 
to present argument and evidence as to why the taxpayer’s transfer pricing 
was not arm’s length and why the assessment is correct. On the other hand, 
where a taxpayer makes little effort to show that its transfer pricing was arm’s 
length, the burden imposed on the taxpayer would not be satisfied where a tax 
administration raised an assessment which was soundly based in law.
4.14.  When transfer pricing issues are present, the divergent rules on burden 
of proof among OECD member countries will present serious problems if the 
strict legal rights implied by those rules are used as a guide for appropriate 
behaviour.  For  example,  consider  the  case  where  the  controlled  transaction 
under examination involves one jurisdiction in which the burden of proof is 
on the taxpayer and a second jurisdiction in which the burden of proof is on 
the  tax  administration.  If  the  burden  of  proof  is  guiding  behaviour,  the  tax 
administration in the first jurisdiction might make an unsubstantiated assertion 
about  the  transfer  pricing,  which  the  taxpayer  might  accept,  and  the  tax 
administration in the second jurisdiction would have the burden of disproving 
the  pricing.  It  could  be  that  neither  the  taxpayer  in  the  second  jurisdiction 
nor the tax administration in the first jurisdiction would be making efforts to 
establish an acceptable arm’s length price. This type of behaviour would set the 
stage for significant conflict as well as double taxation.
4.15.  Consider the same facts as in the example in the preceding paragraph. 
If  the  burden  of  proof  is  again  guiding  behaviour,  a  taxpayer  in  the  first 
jurisdiction  being  a  subsidiary  of  a  taxpayer  in  the  second  jurisdiction 
(notwithstanding the burden of proof and these Guidelines), may be unable 
or  unwilling  to  show  that  its  transfer  prices  are  arm’s  length.  The  tax 
administration in the first jurisdiction after examination makes an adjustment 
in good faith based on the information available to it. The parent company 
in the second jurisdiction is not obliged to provide to its tax administration 
any  information  to  show  that  the  transfer  pricing  was  arm’s  length  as  the 
burden of proof rests with the tax administration. This will make it difficult 
for the two tax administrations to reach agreement in competent authority 
proceedings.
4.16. 
In practice, neither jurisdictions nor taxpa