xpenses may be an appropriate base for distribution 
activities, full costs or operating expenses may be an appropriate base for a 
service or manufacturing activity, and operating assets may be an appropriate 
base for capital-intensive activities such as certain manufacturing activities or 
utilities. Other bases can also be appropriate depending on the circumstances 
of the case.

2.94.  The denominator should be reasonably independent from controlled 
transactions,  otherwise  there  would  be  no  objective  starting  point.  For 
instance, when analysing a transaction consisting in the purchase of goods 
by  a  distributor  from  an  associated  enterprise  for  resale  to  independent 
customers, one could not weight the net profit indicator against the cost of 
goods sold because these costs are the controlled costs for which consistency 
with  the  arm’s  length  principle  is  being  tested.  Similarly,  for  a  controlled 
transaction consisting in the provision of services to an associated enterprise, 
one  could  not  weight  the  net  profit  indicator  against  the  revenue  from  the 
sale of services because these are the controlled sales for which consistency 
with  the  arm’s  length  principle  is  being  tested.  Where  the  denominator  is 
materially  affected  by  controlled  transaction  costs  that  are  not  the  object 
of  the  testing  (such  as  head  office  charges,  rental  fees  or  royalties  paid  to 
an  associated  enterprise),  caution  should  be  exercised  to  ensure  that  said 
controlled  trans action  costs  do  not  materially  distort  the  analysis  and  in 
particular that they are in accordance with the arm’s length principle.

2.95.  The  denominator  should  be  one  that  is  capable  of  being  measured 
in a reliable and consistent manner at the level of the taxpayer’s controlled 
transactions. In addition, the appropriate base should be one that is capable 
of  being  measured  in  a  reliable  and  consistent  manner  at  the  level  of  the 
comparable uncontrolled transactions. This in practice limits the ability to 
use  certain  indicators,  as  discussed  in  paragraph  2.105  below.  Further,  the 
taxpayer’s  allocation  of  indirect  expenses  to  the  transaction  under  review 
should be appropriate and consistent over time.

B.3.4.1. Cases where the net profit is weighted to sales

2.96.  A  net  profit  indicator  of  net  profit  divided  by  sales,  or  net  profit 
margin, is frequently used to determine the arm’s length price of purchases 
from  an  associated  enterprise  for  resale  to  independent  customers.  In 
such  cases,  the  sales  figure  at  the  denominator  should  be  the  re-sales  of 
items  purchased  in  the  controlled  transaction  under  review.  Sales  revenue 
that  is  derived  from  uncontrolled  activities  (purchase  from  independent 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 123

parties  for  re-sale  to  independent  parties)  should  not  be  included  in  the 
determination  or  testing  of  the  remuneration  for  controlled  transactions, 
unless  the  uncontrolled  transactions  are  such  that  they  do  not  materially 
affect  the  comparison;  and/or  the  controlled  and  uncontrolled  transactions 
are so closely linked that they cannot be evaluated adequately on a separate 
basis.  One  example  of  the  latter  situation  can  sometimes  occur  in  relation 
to  uncontrolled  after-sales  services  or  sales  of  spare  parts  provided  by  a 
distributor to independent end-user customers where they are closely linked 
to controlled purchase transactions by the distributor for resale to the same 
independent end-user customers, for instance because the service activity is 
performed using rights or other assets that are granted under the distribution 
arrangement. See also discussion of portfolio approaches in paragraph 3.10.

2.97.  One  question  that  arises  in  cases  where  the  net  profit  indicator  is 
weighted against sales is how to account for rebates and discounts that may 
be granted to customers by the taxpayer or the comparables. Depending on 
the accounting standards, rebates and discounts may be treated as a reduction 
of sales revenue or as an expense. Similar difficulties can arise in relation 
to  foreign  exchange  gains  or  losses.  Where  such  items  materially  affect 
the  comparison,  the  key  is  to  compare  like  with  like  and  follow  the  same 
accounting principles for the taxpayer and for the comparables.

B.3.4.2. Cases where the net profit is weighted to costs

2.98.  Cost-based indicators should only be used in those cases where costs 
are a relevant indicator of the value of the functions performed, assets used 
and risks assumed by the tested party. In addition, the determination of what 
costs should be included in the cost base should derive from a careful review 
of  the  facts  and  circumstance