  The  two  basic 
components of such a framework are the terms of the applicable treaty, Tax 
Information Exchange Agreement (TIEA) or other bilateral agreement for the 
exchange of information, and a jurisdiction’s domestic legislation.

1.1 Tax Conventions, TIEAs & Other Exchange Agreements

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Provisions in tax treaties, TIEAs and international agreements 

requiring confidentiality of exchanged information and restricting use 
to intended purposes

How do the exchange of information provisions in your Tax Conventions, TIEAs, or other 
exchange agreements ensure confidentiality and restrict the use of both outgoing information 
to other Contracting States and incoming information received in response to a request?

1.2 Domestic Legislation

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Domestic law must apply safeguards to taxpayer information 

exchanged pursuant to a treaty, TIEA or other international agreement, 
and treat those information exchange agreements as binding, restrict 
data access and use and impose penalties for violations.

How do your domestic laws and regulations safeguard and restrict the use of information 
exchanged for tax purposes under Tax Conventions, TIEAs, or other exchange instruments? 
How does the tax administration prevent the misuse of confidential data and prohibit the 
transfer of tax information from the tax administrative body to non-tax government bodies?

2. Information Security Management

The 

information  security  management  systems  used  by  each 
jurisdiction’s  tax  administration  must  adhere  to  standards  that  ensure  the 
protection  of  confidential  taxpayer  data.  For  example,  there  must  be  a 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

580 – ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

screening  process  for  employees  handling  the  information,  limits  on  who 
can  access  the  information,  and  systems  to  detect  and  trace  unauthorised 
disclosures. The internationally accepted standards for information security 
are known as the “ISO/IEC 27000-series”. As described more fully below, 
a  tax  administration  should  be  able  to  document  that  it  is  compliant  with 
the ISO/IEC 27000-series standards or that it has an equivalent information 
security  framework  and  that  taxpayer  information  obtained  under  an 
exchange agreement is protected under that framework.

2.1.1 Background Checks and Contracts

•  Screenings and background investigations for employees and 

Primary Check-list Areas

contractors

•  Hiring process and contracts
•  Responsible Points of Contact

What procedures govern your tax administration’s background investigations for employees 
and contractors who may have access to, use, or are responsible for protecting data 
received through exchange of information? Is this information publicly available? If so, 
please provide the reference. If not, please provide a summary of the procedures.

2.1.2 Training and Awareness

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Initial training and periodic security awareness training based on 

roles, security risks, and applicable laws

What training does your tax administration provide to employees and contractors regarding 
confidential information including data received from partners through the Exchange of 
Information? Does your tax administration maintain a public version of the requirements? If 
so, please provide the reference. If not, please provide a summary of the requirement.

2.1.3 Departure Policies

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Departure policies to terminate access to confidential information

What procedures does your tax administration maintain for terminating access to 
confidential information for departing employees and consultants? Are the procedures 
publicly available? If so, please provide the reference. If not, please provide a summary of 
the procedures.

2.2.1 Physical Security: Access to Premises

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Security measures to restrict entry to premises: security guards, 

policies, entry access procedures

What procedures does your tax administration maintain to grant employees, consultants, 
and visitors access to premises where confidential information, paper or electronic, is 
stored? Are the procedures publicly available? If so, please provide the reference. If not, 
please provide a summary of the procedures.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 581

2.2.2 Physical Security: Physical Document Storage

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Secure physical storage for confidential documents: policies 

and procedures

What procedures does your tax administration maintain for receiving, processing, archiving, 
retrieving and disposing of hard copies of confidential data received from taxpayers or exchange 
of information partners? Does your tax administration maintain procedures employees must 
follow 