 and  financial  statements  relating 
to the business affairs of the associated enterprises, agreements and 
contracts entered into with associated enterprises or with unrelated 
enterprises  in  respect  of  transactions  similar  to  the  international 
transactions,  letters  and  other  correspondence  between  taxpayer 
and  the  associated  enterprise,  etc.

1.3.7  Aggregate  Value  Limit  of  `  1  Crore:  The  Rules  [Rule  10D(2)] 
specify  that  every  person  who  has  entered  into  an  international 
transaction,  the  aggregate  value  of  which  exceeds  `  1  crore,  is 
required  to  keep,  and  maintain  information  and  documents  as 
prescribed. In a case where the aggregate value as recorded in the 
books  of  account,  of  international  transactions  entered  into  by  the 
taxpayer does not exceed ` 1 crore, the information, and documents 
as specified are not required to be maintained. However, the taxpayer 
shall be required to substantiate, on the basis of material available 
with him, that income arising from international transactions entered 
into  by  him  has  been  computed  in  accordance  with  section  92,  i.e. 
it  is  at  arm’s  length  price.

1.3.8  Time  Limit  for  Maintenance:  The  Rules  further  specify  that 
the  information  and  documents  maintained  under  the  Act  should 
be  contemporaneous  and  should  exist  latest  by  the  specified  date 

I-102

Transfer Pricing – A Compendium 
Transfer Pricing Documentation and its Critical Importance in Practice

referred  to  in  clause  (iv)  of  section  92F  i.e.  one  month  before  due 
date  for  furnishing  of  return  of  income  under  section  139(1)  for 
the  relevant  assessment  year.  Further  the  documentation  should 
be kept and maintained for a period of 8 years as per Rule 10D(5) 
from  the  end  of  the  assessment  year  to  which  the  Documentation 
relates. 

1.3.9  Obtaining  and  filing  Accountant’s  report  by  the  due  date:  The 
need  to  maintain  Documentation  on  a  contemporaneous  basis  is 
underscored  by  the  requirement  under  the  Regulations  to  obtain 
and file an Accountant’s Report in Form 3CEB5. The Form inter alia 
requires an opinion to be expressed by the signing Accountant as to 
whether the prescribed Documentation is maintained and whether 
it  is  appropriate  and  complete.

1.3.10  Accountant:  The  Accountant  shall  have  the  same  meaning 
as  in  the  Explanation  below  sub-section  (2)  of  Section  288  [Section 
92F(i)]  and  it  is  not  necessary  that  the  Accountant’s  Report  to  be 
issued under the Act is to be issued by the statutory auditor of the 
taxpayer.  However,  Form  3CEB  mentions  that  the  report  from  an 
accountant to be furnished under section 92E relating international 
transaction(s) and specified domestic transaction(s) has to be signed 
by;  (i)  a  chartered  accountant;  or  (ii)  any  person  who,  in  relation 
to  any  State,  is,  by  virtue  of  the  provisions  in  sub-section  (2)  of 
section  226  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of  1956),  entitled  to  be 
appointed to act as an auditor of companies registered in that State.

1.3.11  Onus  to  demonstrate  ‘arm’s  length  nature’:  The  onus  is  on 
the  taxpayer  to  determine  an  arm’s  length  price  in  accordance 
with  the  Rules,  and  to  substantiate  the  same  with  the  prescribed 
documentation. Where such an onus is discharged by the taxpayer 
and the data used for determining the arm’s length price is reliable 
and  correct,  there  can  normally  be  no  intervention  by  the  TPO. 
Apart  from  mandatory  requirements,  the  taxpayer  should  bear 
in  mind  that  once  the  taxpayer  has  fulfilled  its  responsibility  of 
maintaining  and  furnishing  the  transfer  pricing  documentation  in 
respect of the international transactions entered into by it, the TPO 
will then examine the appropriateness of the documentation as well 
as  the  determination  of  the  arm’s  length  price  of  the  international 
transactions.  Therefore,  to  avoid  any  difference  in  opinion  by  the 
TPO  on  the  determination  of  the  arm’s  length  price,  the  taxpayer 
should  follow  adequate  record  keeping  practices  and  voluntary 

5 

Rule  10E  read  with  Section  92E

I-103

production  of  documents.  This  approach  would  also  increase  the 
persuasiveness of its case before the TPOs. Further, it is important 
to  note  that,  greater  the  complexity  of  the  taxpayer’s  case,  greater 
is  the  significance  of  adequate  and  robust  Documentation.

1.3.12  During  the  course  of  any  proceedings  under  the  Act,  the 
TPO may require any person who has undertaken an international 
transaction to furnish any of the information and documents specified 
under  the  said  Rule  within  a  period  of  thirty  days  from  the  date 
of  receipt  of  notice  issued  in  this  regard,  and  such  period  may  be 
