reflected in its Consolidated Financial Statements for such preceding Fiscal Year.

4. 
The  term  “Constituent  Entity”  means  (i)  any  separate  business  unit  of  an  MNE 
Group that is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of the MNE Group for 
financial reporting purposes, or would be so included if equity interests in such business 
unit of an MNE Group were traded on a public securities exchange; (ii) any such business 
unit that is excluded from the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements solely on 
size or materiality grounds; and (iii) any permanent establishment of any separate business 
unit of the MNE Group included in (i) or (ii) above provided the business unit prepares 
a separate financial statement for such permanent establishment for financial reporting, 
regulatory, tax reporting, or internal management control purposes.

5. 
The  term  “Reporting  Entity”  means  the  Constituent  Entity  that  is  required  to  file 
a country-by-report conforming to the requirements in Article 4 in its jurisdiction of tax 
residence on behalf of the MNE Group. The Reporting Entity may be the Ultimate Parent 
Entity, the Surrogate Parent Entity, or any entity described in paragraph 2 of Article 2.

The term “Ultimate Parent Entity” means a Constituent Entity of an MNE Group that 

6. 
meets the following criteria:

(i)  it owns directly or indirectly a sufficient interest in one or more other Constituent 
Entities  of  such  MNE  Group  such  that  it  is  required  to  prepare  Consolidated 
Financial Statements under accounting principles generally applied in its jurisdiction 
of  tax  residence,  or  would  be  so  required  if  its  equity  interests  were  traded  on  a 
public securities exchange in its jurisdiction of tax residence; and

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

40 – ANNEx Iv TO ChAPTER v. COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

(ii)  there  is  no  other  Constituent  Entity  of  such  MNE  Group  that  owns  directly  or 
indirectly  an  interest  described  in  subsection  (i)  above  in  the  first  mentioned 
Constituent Entity.

The term “Surrogate Parent Entity” means one Constituent Entity of the MNE Group 
7. 
that has been appointed by such MNE Group, as a sole substitute for the Ultimate Parent 
Entity, to file the Country-by-Country Report in that Constituent Entity’s jurisdiction of 
tax residence, on behalf of such MNE Group, when one or more of the conditions set out 
in subsection (ii) of paragraph 2 of Article 2 applies.

The term “Fiscal Year” means an annual accounting period with respect to which the 

8. 
Ultimate Parent Entity of the MNE Group prepares its financial statements.

The  term  “Reporting  Fiscal  Year”  means  that  Fiscal  Year  the  financial  and 
9. 
operational  results  of  which  are  reflected  in  the  Country-by-Country  Report  defined  in 
Article 4.

10.  The  term  “Qualifying  Competent  Authority  Agreement”  means  an  agreement 
(i) that is between authorised representatives of those jurisdictions that are parties to an 
International  Agreement  and  (ii)  that  requires  the  automatic  exchange  of  Country-by-
Country Reports between the party jurisdictions.

11.  The  term  “International  Agreement”  shall  mean  the  Multilateral  Convention  for 
Mutual  Administrative  Assistance  in  Tax  Matters,  any  bilateral  or  multilateral  Tax 
Convention, or any Tax Information Exchange Agreement to which [Country] is a party, 
and that by its terms provides legal authority for the exchange of tax information between 
jurisdictions, including automatic exchange of such information.

12.  The  term  “Consolidated  Financial  Statements”  means  the  financial  statements  of 
an MNE Group in which the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and cash flows of the 
Ultimate  Parent  Entity  and  the  Constituent  Entities  are  presented  as  those  of  a  single 
economic entity.

13.  The term “Systemic Failure” with respect to a jurisdiction means that a jurisdiction 
has  a  Qualifying  Competent  Authority  Agreement  in  effect  with  [Country],  but  has 
suspended automatic exchange (for reasons other than those that are in accordance with 
the  terms  of  that  Agreement)  or  otherwise  persistently  failed  to  automatically  provide 
to  [Country]  Country-by-Country  Reports  in  its  possession  of  MNE  Groups  that  have 
Constituent Entities in [Country].

Article 2
Filing Obligation

Each  Ultimate  Parent  Entity  of  an  MNE  Group  that  is  resident  for  tax  purposes 
1. 
in [Country] shall file a Country-by-Country Report conforming to the requirements of 
Article 4 with the [Country Tax Administration] with respect to its Reporting Fiscal Year 
on or before the date specified in Article 5.

2.  A  Constituent  Entity  which  is  not  the  Ultimate  Parent  Entity  of  an  MNE  Group 
shall file a Country-by-Country Report conforming t