n making a number of relevant decisions about 
whether and how to take on the development risk. These include the decision 
to perform part of the development work itself, the decision to seek specialist 
input, the decision to hire the particular researcher, the decision of the type 
of research that should be carried out and objectives assigned to it, and the 
decision of the budget allocated to Company B. Company A has mitigated its 
risk by taking measures to outsource development activities to Company B 
which  assumes  the  day-to-day  responsibility  for  carrying  out  the  research 
under  the  control  of  Company  A.  Company  B  reports  back  to  Company  A 
at  predetermined  milestones,  and  Company  A  assesses  the  progress  of  the 
development and whether its ongoing objectives are being met, and decides 
whether  continuing  investments  in  the  project  are  warranted  in  the  light  of 
that  assessment.  Company  A  has  the  financial  capacity  to  assume  the  risk. 
Company B has no capability to evaluate the development risk and does not 
make  decisions  about  Company  A’s  activities.  Company  B’s  risk  is  mainly 
to ensure it performs the research activities competently and it exercises its 
capability and authority to control that risk through making decisions about 
the processes, expertise, and assets it needs. The risk Company B assumes is 
distinct from the development risk assumed by Company A under the contract, 
and which is controlled by Company A based on the evidence of the functional 
analysis.

Example 2

1.84.  Company  B  manufactures  products  for  Company  A.  Under  step  1 
capacity  utilisation  risk  and  supply  chain  risk  have  been  identified  as 
economically  significant  in  this  transaction,  and  under  step  2  it  has  been 
established  that  under  the  contract  Company  A  assumes  these  risks.  The 
functional  analysis  under  step  3  provides  evidence  that  Company  B  built 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

60 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

and  equipped  its  plant  to  Company  A’s  specifications,  that  products  are 
manufactured to technical requirements and designs provided by Company A, 
that volume levels are determined by Company A, and that Company A runs 
the supply chain, including the procurement of components and raw materials. 
Company  A  also  performs  regular  quality  checks  of  the  manufacturing 
process.  Company  B  builds  the  plant,  employs  and  trains  competent 
manufacturing  personnel,  and  determines  production  scheduling  based  on 
volume levels determined by Company A. Although Company B has incurred 
fixed costs, it has no ability to manage the risk associated with the recovery 
of those costs through determining the production units over which the fixed 
costs  are  spread,  since  Company  A  determines  volumes.  Company  A  also 
determines significant costs relating to components and raw materials and the 
security of supply. The evaluation of the evidence concludes that Company B 
performs manufacturing services. Significant risks associated with generating 
a  return  from  the  manufacturing  activities  are  controlled  by  Company  A. 
Company B controls the risk that it fails to competently deliver services. Each 
company has the financial capacity to assume its respective risks.

Example 3

1.85.  Company  A  has  acquired  ownership  of  a  tangible  asset  and  enters 
into contracts for the use of the asset with unrelated customers. Under step 1 
utilisation of the tangible asset, that is the risk that there will be insufficient 
demand  for  the  asset  to  cover  the  costs  Company  A  has  incurred,  has  been 
identified  as  an  economically  significant  risk.  Under  step  2  it  is  established 
that  Company  A  has  a  contract  for  the  provision  of  services  with  another 
group  company,  Company  C;  the  contract  does  not  address  the  assumption 
of  utilisation  risk  by  the  owner  of  the  tangible  asset,  Company  A.  The 
functional analysis under step 3 provides evidence that another group company, 
Company  B,  decides  that  investment  in  the  asset  is  appropriate  in  light  of 
anticipated commercial opportunities identified and evaluated by Company B 
and its assessment of the asset’s anticipated useful life; Company B provides 
specifications for the asset and the unique features required to respond to the 
commercial  opportunities,  and  arranges  for  the  asset  to  be  constructed  in 
accordance with its specifications, and for Company A to acquire the asset. 
Company C decides how to utilise the asset, markets the asset’s capabilities 
to  third-party  customers,  negotiates  the  contracts  with  these  third  party 
customers, assures that the asset is delivered to the third parties and installed 
appropriately. Although it is the legal owner of the asset, Company A does not 
exercise contro