local 
filing  is  required  in  cases  where  the  UPE  of  an  MNE  group  does  file  a  CbC  report  which  is 
exchanged with the jurisdiction within the envisaged timeframe. Given paragraph 60 of the BEPS 
Action 13 report specifically only accepts local filing in certain circumstances where a CbC report 
is not exchanged, this should never be the case. 

Both of these risks are reduced where a jurisdiction requires local filing no earlier than 12 months after the 
end of the reporting fiscal  year, even though the deadline for filing by a resident UPE may be required 
earlier. Under the BEPS Action 13 minimum standard, the deadline for local filing may also be extended 
to later than 12 months after the end of the reporting fiscal year (e.g. to 15 months which would correspond 
with the time when competent authorities typically receive CbC reports under exchange of information).5 

In  light  of  these  considerations,  jurisdictions  with  local  filing  requirements  (or  introducing  such 
requirements) are encouraged to apply a filing deadline for these CbC reports no earlier than 12 months 
after the end of the reporting fiscal year. 

4.4 Is the automatic exchange of CbC reports filed under local filing rules intended under 
the BEPS Action 13 minimum standard? (December 2019) 

Paragraph 60 of the BEPS Action 13 report sets out the framework underpinning the minimum standard. 
Under this framework, jurisdictions commit to require the filing of a CbC report by resident UPE of MNE 
groups, and to  automatically exchange this  information with  other jurisdictions in which the MNE group 
operates, subject to conditions. As such, the automatic exchange of a CbC report filed by the UPE of an 
MNE group is at the heart of the minimum standard.6 

Paragraph 60 also provides that local filing of a CbC report by a resident Constituent Entity that is not the 
UPE of an MNE group may be accepted in certain specific circumstances. The minimum standard does 
not anticipate the automatic exchange of CbC reports filed in accordance with local filing rules, and the 
automatic exchange of these CbC reports could result in the exchange and cross-exchange of multiple 
CbC reports on the same MNE group. This could potentially overwhelm and confuse tax administrations, 
with no additional benefit from the perspective of an MNE group’s tax risk assessment. Such automatic 
exchanges are also inconsistent with the scope of a jurisdiction’s commitment to automatically exchange 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
CbC reports, as defined in paragraph 60 (e.g. where there is currently no international agreement for the 
exchange of CbC reports in effect between the residence tax jurisdiction of the UPE of an MNE group and 
another jurisdiction).  

As  such,  this  guidance  makes  clear  that,  under  the  BEPS  Action  13  minimum  standard,  the  automatic 
exchange of CbC reports filed under local filing rules is not intended.7  

  | 41 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
42 |   

Lodging a unilateral declaration for the purposes of exchanging CbC reports 
(November 2019)  

5.1 Should jurisdictions consider lodging a unilateral declaration to bring forward the 
effective date of the multilateral convention on mutual administrative assistance in tax 
matters, for the purposes of exchanging CbC reports?  

Under the BEPS Action 13 minimum standard, jurisdictions that are members of the Inclusive Framework 
are committed to requiring the filing of a CbC report by all MNEs above the consolidated revenue threshold, 
and  exchanging  these  CbC  reports  under  existing  international  agreements  with  other  members  of  the 
Inclusive Framework where an MNE has Constituent Entities, subject to conditions. In order to improve 
transparency and promote greater co-operation and exchange of tax information, including CbC reports, a 
number  of  jurisdictions  have  recently  ratified  the  multilateral  convention  on  mutual  administrative 
assistance  in  tax  matters  (the  Convention),  are  in  the  process  of  ratifying  the  Convention,  or  are 
considering ratifying (or signing and ratifying) the Convention.  

Under paragraph 5 of Article 28, the Convention shall enter into force on the first day of the month following 
the expiration of a period of three months after the date of deposit of the instrument of ratification with one 
of the Depositories. Under paragraph 6 of Article 28, the Convention shall have effect for administrative 
assistance related to taxable periods beginning on or after 1 January of the year following the one in which 
the Convention enters into force. However, any two jurisdictions may agree that the Convention shall have 
effect for administrative assistance related to earlier periods. 

The provisions of Article 28 mean that there can be a period of over th