digms;  3.  review  of  changes  in  legislation, 
regulations, and administrative practices; and 4. development of examples. 
Each of these is discussed below.

B.1. Peer reviews

6. 
The Working Party No. 6 on Taxation of Multinational Enterprises 
(“the  Working  Party”)  has  been  undertaking  peer  reviews  of  the  transfer 
pricing practices of member countries over the course of the last few years. 
The peer reviews aim to gain detailed information on legislation, practices 
and experiences of transfer pricing in member countries. The Delegates of the 
Working Party jointly decide which country should be reviewed and which 
countries would conduct the review. The reviews follow guidelines approved 
by the Committee.

7. 
The  peer  review  guidelines  call  for  a  report  to  be  submitted  to  the 
Working Party for each reviewed country. The report covers the legal basis for 
dealing with transfer pricing issues, any country guidelines to direct enforcement 
practices,  approaches  commonly  used  to  address  a  complex  transfer  pricing 
problem, administrative arrangements for handling transfer pricing cases, case 
law principles, and experience with data gathering and taxpayer documentation. 
The  report  also  is  to  describe  experiences  with  administrative  approaches 
to  avoiding  and  resolving  transfer  pricing  disputes  (e.g.  mutual  agreement 
procedure, advance pricing arrangements and safe harbours).

Peer  reviews  will  continue  to  be  carried  out  but  at  three  different 

8. 
levels:

1.  The  first  level  would  be  an  “issue  review”,  which  would  look  at 
the  approach  taken  by  all  member  countries  to  a  particular  issue 
of widespread significance. Ideally, the review should link up with 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX: MONITORING PROCEDURES – 457

other aspects of the monitoring process. For example, the best way to 
solve any problems emerging from such a review may be to analyse 
the  issue  in  more  detail  by  developing  difficult  case  paradigms 
(see Section B.2 of this annex) or to develop practical examples for 
insertion in the Guidelines (see Section B.4 of this annex).

2.  The second level would be a “limited review” in that it would only 
look at the approach of a particular country or countries in relation 
to  a  specific  and  relatively  narrow  issue.  The  review  would  be 
carried out by two reviewers for each country and the level of input 
necessary would depend on the nature of the issue

3.  The third level would be a “full review” of a particular country which 
would be carried out according to the existing peer review guidelines 
referred  to  in  paragraph  7  of  this  annex.  A  “full  review”  would 
therefore  address  directly  the  interpretation  and  application  of  the 
Guidelines in the particular member country.

Selection criteria

9. 
To improve the effectiveness of the peer review process it is essential 
that the reviews are undertaken selectively and concentrate on the areas of 
greatest difficulty in applying the Guidelines. The final decision to undertake 
any  of  the  three  types  of  review  will  be  made  by  the  full  Working  Party 
having regard both to the overall usefulness of any review to the work of the 
Working Party in monitoring the application of the Guidelines and to whether 
there are sufficient resources available to undertake the proposed review. It is 
important that any review, once undertaken, is completed to a high standard 
so that worthwhile conclusions can be drawn from it.

B.2. Identification and analysis of difficult case paradigms

10. 
A key aspect of monitoring will be to identify and then to analyse 
difficult fact patterns and problem areas which may be illustrated by practical 
examples  and  which  present  obstacles  to  an  internationally  consistent 
application  of  the  transfer  pricing  methods  set  out  in  the  Guidelines. 
Monitoring will also include areas where the Guidelines appear to offer no 
or inadequate guidance to tax authorities or taxpayers. All member countries 
will be actively involved in this process and recognise that resources will be 
required to ensure its success. The business community will also be involved 
in the monitoring (see Section C of this annex).

11. 
The  first  issue  is  the  procedure  to  be  used  and  the  responsibility 
assigned for identifying the difficult case paradigms, focusing on issues and 
situations where the Guidelines may provide no or inadequate guidance or 
where member countries might be interpreting the Guidelines differently and 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

458 – ANNEX: MONITORING PROCEDURES

therefore presenting obstacles to an internationally consistent application of 
the Guidelines. Member countries can identify areas where, in their view, the 
Guidelines might not address or adequately address a particular issue.

12. 
In the context of the reg