r valuing current contributions 
is  permitted,  the  analysis  should  initially  be  based  on  budgeted  costs.  This 
does not necessarily mean fixing the costs, since the budget framework may 
accommodate variability arising from factors such as varying demand levels 
(for instance budgeted costs may be expressed as a fixed percentage of actual 
sales). Additionally, there are likely to be differences between budgeted costs 
and actual costs during the term of the CCA. In an arm’s length situation, the 
terms agreed between the parties are likely to set out how such differences 
should be treated since, as stated in paragraph 2.96, independent parties are 
not likely to use budgeted costs without agreeing what factors are taken into 
account  in  setting  the  budget  and  how  unforeseen  circumstances  are  to  be 
treated. Attention should be paid to the reason for any significant differences 
between budgeted costs and actual costs, since the difference may point to 
changes in the scope of activities which may not benefit all the participants 
in  the  same  way  as  the  activities  originally  scoped.  In  general  terms, 
however, where cost is found to be an appropriate basis for measuring current 
contributions, it is likely to be sufficient to use actual costs as the basis for so 
doing.

It is important that the evaluation process recognises all contributions 
8.30. 
made by participants to the arrangement. This includes contributions made 
by one or more parties at the inception of the CCA (such as contributions of 
pre-existing intangibles) as well as contributions made on an ongoing basis 
during the term of the CCA. Contributions to be considered include property 
or  services  that  are  used  solely  in  the  CCA  activity,  but  also  property  or 
services  (i.e.  shared  property  or  services)  that  are  used  partly  in  the  CCA 
activity  and  also  partly  in  the  participant’s  separate  business  activities.  It 
can  be  difficult  to  measure  contributions  that  involve  shared  property  or 
services, for example where a participant contributes the partial use of assets 
such  as  office  buildings  and  IT  systems  or  performs  supervisory,  clerical, 
and  administrative  functions  for  the  CCA  and  for  its  own  business.  It  will 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS – 349

be necessary to determine the proportion of the assets used or services that 
relate to the CCA activity in a commercially justifiable way with regard to 
recognised  accounting  principles  and  the  actual  facts,  and  adjustments,  if 
material, may be necessary to achieve consistency when different jurisdictions 
are  involved.  Once  the  proportion  is  determined,  the  contribution  can  be 
measured in accordance with the principles in the rest of this chapter.

8.31. 
For  development  CCAs,  contributions  in  the  form  of  controlling 
and  managing  the  CCA,  its  activities  and  risks,  are  likely  to  be  important 
functions,  as  described  in  paragraph  6.56,  in  relation  to  the  development, 
production, or obtaining of the intangibles or tangible assets and should be 
valued in accordance with the principles set out in Chapter VI.

8.32.  The  following  scenario  illustrates  the  guidance  on  determining 
participants, the share of benefits, and the value of contributions.

8.33.  Company A based in Country A and Company B based in Country B 
are  members  of  an  MNE  group  and  have  concluded  a  CCA  to  develop 
intangibles.  Company  B  has  entitlement  under  the  CCA  to  exploit  the 
intangibles in Country B, and Company A has entitlement under the CCA 
to exploit the intangibles in the rest of the world. The parties anticipate that 
Company A will have 75% of total sales and Company B 25% of total sales, 
and that their share of expected benefits from the CCA is 75:25. Both A and 
B  have  experience  of  developing  intangibles  and  have  their  own  research 
and development personnel. They each control their development risk under 
the  CCA  within  the  terms  set  out  in  paragraphs  8.14  to  8.16.  Company  A 
contributes pre-existing intangibles to the CCA that it has recently acquired 
from a third-party. Company B contributes proprietary analytical techniques 
that it has developed to improve efficiency and speed to market. Both of these 
pre-existing  contributions  should  be  valued  under  the  guidance  provided 
in  Chapters  I-III  and  VI.  Current  contributions  in  the  form  of  day-to-day 
research  will  be  performed  80%  by  Company  B  and  20%  by  Company  A 
under  the  guidance  of  a  leadership  team  made  up  of  personnel  from  both 
companies in the ratio 90:10 in favour of Company A. These two kinds of 
current  contributions  should  separately  be  analysed  and  valued  under  the 
guidance provided in Chapters I-III and VI. When the expected b