should  take  all  reasonable  steps  to  ensure  that 
there  is  no  public  disclosure  of  confidential  information  (trade  secrets, 
scientific secrets, etc.) and other commercially sensitive information contained 
in the documentation package (master file, local file and Country-by-Country 
Report). Tax administrations should also assure taxpayers that the information 
presented in transfer pricing documentation will remain confidential. In cases 
where disclosure is required in public court proceedings or judicial decisions, 
every effort should be made to ensure that confidentiality is maintained and 
that information is disclosed only to the extent needed.

5.45.  The Confidentiality and Information Security Management Toolkit 
(2020)  produced  by  the  Global  Forum  on  Transparency  and  Exchange  of 
Information  for  Tax  Purposes  provides  guidance  to  jurisdictions  to  ensure 
that their legal framework on the confidentiality of taxpayer information is 
adequate and protects the confidentiality and appropriate use of information 
exchanged under an international exchange agreement.

D.9. Other issues

5.46.  The  requirement  to  use  the  most  reliable  information  will  usually, 
but  not  always,  require  the  use  of  local  comparables  over  the  use  of  regional 
comparables where such local comparables are reasonably available. The use of 
regional comparables in transfer pricing documentation prepared for jurisdictions 
in the same geographic region in situations where appropriate local comparables 
are  available  will  not,  in  some  cases,  comport  with  the  obligation  to  rely  on 
the most reliable information. While the simplification benefits of limiting the 
number of comparable searches an entity is required to undertake are obvious, 
and materiality and compliance costs are relevant factors to consider, a desire 
for  simplifying  compliance  processes  should  not  go  so  far  as  to  undermine 
compliance with the requirement to use the most reliable available information. 
See  paragraphs  1.132-1.133  on  market  differences  and  multi-jurisdictional 
analyses for further details on when local comparables are to be preferred.

5.47. 
It  is  not  recommended,  particularly  at  the  stage  of  transfer  pricing 
risk assessment, to require that the transfer pricing documentation should be 
certified by an outside auditor or other third party. Similarly, mandatory use of 
consulting firms to prepare transfer pricing documentation is not recommended.

E. Implementation

5.48.  This section contains guidance to ensure an effective and consistent 
implementation  of  transfer  pricing  documentation  requirements,  and  in 
particular Country-by-Country Reporting.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION – 239

E.1. Master file and local file

It is recommended that the master file and local file elements of the 
5.49. 
transfer pricing documentation standard be implemented in each jurisdiction 
through local legislation or administrative procedures and that the master file 
and local file be filed directly with the tax administrations in each relevant 
jurisdiction as required by those administrations. With regard to the local file 
and the master file, confidentiality and the consistent use of the standards 
contained in Annex I and Annex II to Chapter V of these Guidelines should 
be  taken  into  account  by  jurisdictions  when  introducing  these  elements  in 
local legislation or administrative procedures.

E.2. Country-by-Country Report

E.2.1.  Timing: When should the Country-by-Country Reporting 

requirement start?

5.50. 
It  is  recommended  that  the  first  Country-by-Country  Reports  be 
required  to  be  filed  for  MNE  fiscal  years  beginning  on  or  after  1  January 
2016. However, it is acknowledged that some jurisdictions may need time to 
follow their particular domestic legislative process in order to make necessary 
adjustments  to  the  law.  In  order  to  assist  jurisdictions  in  preparing  timely 
legislation, model legislation requiring ultimate parent entities of MNE groups 
to file the Country-by-Country Report in their jurisdiction of residence has 
been developed (see Annex IV to Chapter V of these Guidelines). Jurisdictions 
will be able to adapt this model legislation to their own legal systems. Given 
the recommendation in paragraph 5.31 that MNEs be allowed one year from 
the close of the fiscal year to which the Country-by-Country Report relates to 
prepare and file the Country-by-Country Report, this recommendation means 
that  the  first  Country-by-Country  Reports  would  be  filed  by  31  December 
2017. For MNEs with a fiscal year ending on a date other than 31 December, 
the first Country-by-Country Reports would be required to be filed later in 
2018, twelve months after the close of the relevant MNE fiscal year, and would 
report on the MNE group’s first fiscal year begi