levant facts that the true nature of the relationship 
between the parties includes the exercising control over product liability and 
recall risk by Company S, and if an arm’s length price can be identified on 
the basis of the comparability analysis, an increase in the distribution margins 
of Company S for all years might be made to reflect the true risk allocation 
between the parties.

Example 8

20. 
Primair, a resident of Country X, manufactures watches which are 
marketed  in  many  countries  around  the  world  under  the  R  trademark  and 
trade  name.  Primair  is  the  registered  owner  of  the  R  trademark  and  trade 
name. The R name is widely known in countries where the watches are sold 
and  has  obtained  considerable  economic  value  in  those  markets  through 
the efforts of Primair. R watches have never been marketed in Country y, 
however, and the R name is not known in the Country y market.

21. 
In  year  1,  Primair  decides  to  enter  the  Country  y  market  and 
incorporates  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary  in  Country  y,  Company  S,  to  act 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 607

as its distributor in Country y. At the same time, Primair enters into a long-
term  royalty-free  marketing  and  distribution  agreement  with  Company  S. 
Under  the  agreement,  Company  S  is  granted  the  exclusive  right  to  market 
and distribute watches bearing the R trademark and using the R trade name 
in  Country  y  for  a  period  of  five  years,  with  an  option  for  a  further  five 
years.  Company  S  obtains  no  other  rights  relating  to  the  R  trademark  and 
trade name from Primair, and in particular is prohibited from re-exporting 
watches  bearing  the  R  trademark  and  trade  name.  The  sole  activity  of 
Company S is marketing and distributing watches bearing the R trademark 
and trade name. It is assumed that the R watches are not part of a portfolio of 
products distributed by Company S in Country y. Company S undertakes no 
secondary processing, as it imports packaged watches into Country y ready 
for sale to the final customer.

22. 
Under  the  contract  between  Primair  and  Company  S,  Company  S 
purchases the watches from Primair in Country y currency, takes title to the 
branded watches and performs the distribution function in Country y, incurs 
the associated carrying costs (e.g. inventory and receivables financing), and 
assumes the corresponding risks (e.g. inventory, credit and financing risks). 
Under the contract between Primair and Company S, Company S is required 
to act as a marketing agent to assist in developing the market for R watches 
in Country y. Company S consults with Primair in developing the Country y 
marketing strategy for R watches. Primair develops the overall marketing plan 
based largely on its experience in other countries, it develops and approves 
the  marketing  budgets,  and  it  makes  final  decisions  regarding  advertising 
designs,  product  positioning  and  core  advertising  messages.  Company  S 
consults on local market issues related to advertising, assists in executing the 
marketing strategy under Primair’s direction, and provides evaluations of the 
effectiveness of various elements of the marketing strategy. As compensation 
for  providing  these  marketing  support  activities,  Company  S  receives  from 
Primair a service fee based on the level of marketing expenditure it incurs and 
including an appropriate profit element.

Assume for the purpose of this example that, based upon a thorough 
23. 
comparability analysis, including a detailed functional analysis, it is possible 
to conclude that the price Company S pays Primair for the R watches should 
be analysed separately from the compensation Company S receives for the 
marketing  it  undertakes  on  behalf  of  Primair.  Assume  further  that  based 
upon  identified  comparable  transactions,  the  price  paid  for  the  watches  is 
arm’s length and that this price enables Company S to earn an arm’s length 
level of compensation from selling the watches for the distribution function 
it performs, the assets it uses and the risks it assumes.

24. 
In years 1 to 3, Company S embarks on a strategy that is consistent 
with  its  agreement  with  Primair  to  develop  the  Country  y  market  for 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

608 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES

R watches. In the process, Company S incurs marketing expenses. Consistent 
with  the  contract,  Company  S  is  reimbursed  by  Primair  for  the  marketing 
expenses it incurs, and is paid a mark-up on those expenses. By the end of 
year  2,  the  R  trademark  and  trade  name  have  become  well  established  in 
Country  y.  The  compensation  derived  by  Company  S  for  the  marketing 
activities  it  performed  on  behalf  of  Primair  is  determined  to  be  arm’s 
length, base