  greater  product  and 
function similarity. Depending on the facts and circumstances of the case and 
in particular on the effect of the functional differences on the cost structure 
and on the revenue of the potential comparables, net profit indicators can be 
less sensitive than gross margins to differences in the extent and complexity 
of functions and to differences in the level of risks (assuming the contractual 
allocation  of  risks  is  arm’s  length  in  accordance  with  Section  D.1.2.1  of 
Chapter  I).  On  the  other  hand,  depending  on  the  facts  and  circumstances 
of the case and in particular on the proportion of fixed and variable costs, 
the  transactional  net  margin  method  may  be  more  sensitive  than  the  cost 
plus  or  resale  price  methods  to  differences  in  capacity  utilisation,  because 
differences  in  the  levels  of  absorption  of  indirect  fixed  costs  (e.g.  fixed 
manufacturing costs or fixed distribution costs) would affect the net profit 
indicator but may not affect the gross margin or gross mark-up on costs if not 
reflected in price differences. See Annex I to Chapter II “Sensitivity of gross 
and net profit indicators”.

2.77.  Net profit indicators may be directly affected by such forces operating 
in  the  industry  as  follows:  threat  of  new  entrants,  competitive  position, 
management efficiency and individual strategies, threat of substitute products, 
varying  cost  structures  (as  reflected,  for  example,  in  the  age  of  plant  and 
equipment),  differences  in  the  cost  of  capital  (e.g.  self-financing  versus 
borrowing), and the degree of business experience (e.g. whether the business 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

118 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

is  in  a  start-up  phase  or  is  mature).  Each  of  these  factors  in  turn  can  be 
influenced by numerous other elements. For example, the level of the threat of 
new entrants will be determined by such elements as product differentiation, 
capital  requirements,  and  government  subsidies  and  regulations.  Some  of 
these elements also may impact the application of the traditional transaction 
methods.
2.78.  Assume, for example, that a taxpayer sells top quality audio players 
to  an  associated  enterprise,  and  the  only  profit  information  available  on 
comparable  business  activities  is  on  generic  medium  quality  audio  player 
sales. Assume that the top quality audio player market is growing in its sales, 
has  a  high  entry  barrier,  has  a  small  number  of  competitors,  and  is  with 
wide possibilities for product differentiation. All of the differences are likely 
to  have  material  effect  on  the  profitability  of  the  examined  activities  and 
compared activities, and in such a case would require adjustment. As with 
other  methods,  the  reliability  of  the  necessary  adjustments  will  affect  the 
reliability of the analysis. It should be noted that even if two enterprises are 
in exactly the same industry, the profitability may differ depending on their 
market shares, competitive positions, etc.
It might be argued that the potential inaccuracies resulting from the 
2.79. 
above types of factors can be reflected in the size of the arm’s length range. 
The use of a range may to some extent mitigate the level of inaccuracy, but 
may  not  account  for  situations  where  a  taxpayer’s  profits  are  increased  or 
reduced by a factor unique to that taxpayer. In such a case, the range may 
not include points representing the profits of independent enterprises that are 
affected in a similar manner by a unique factor. The use of a range, therefore, 
may not always solve the difficulties discussed above. See discussion of arm’s 
length ranges in paragraphs 3.55-3.66.
2.80.  The transactional net margin method may afford a practical solution 
to otherwise insoluble transfer pricing problems if it is used sensibly and with 
appropriate  adjustments  to  account  for  differences  of  the  type  referred  to 
above. The transactional net margin method should not be used unless the net 
profit indicators are determined from uncontrolled transactions of the same 
taxpayer in comparable circumstances or, where the comparable uncontrolled 
transactions  are  those  of  an  independent  enterprise,  the  differences 
between  the  associated  enterprises  and  the  independent  enterprises  that 
have a material effect on the net profit indicator being used are adequately 
taken  into  account.  Many  jurisdictions  are  concerned  that  the  safeguards 
established  for  the  traditional  transaction  methods  may  be  overlooked  in 
applying  the  transactional  net  margin  method.  Thus  where  differences  in 
the characteristics of the enterprises being compared have a material effect 
on the net profit indicators being used, it would not be appropriate to apply 
the  transactional  net  margin  method  witho