thority  will  annually  exchange  on  an  automatic  basis 
the  CbC  Report  received  from  each  Reporting  Entity  that  is  resident  for 
tax  purposes  in  its  jurisdiction  with  all  such  other  Competent  Authorities 
of  Jurisdictions  with  respect  to  which  it  has  this  Agreement  in  effect,  and 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 573

in  which,  on  the  basis  of  the  information  in  the  CbC  Report,  one  or  more 
Constituent  Entities  of  the  MNE  Group  of  the  Reporting  Entity  are  either 
resident for tax purposes, or are subject to tax with respect to the business 
carried out through a permanent establishment.

2. 
Notwithstanding the previous paragraph, the Competent Authorities of 
the Jurisdictions that have indicated that they are to be listed as non-reciprocal 
jurisdictions  on  the  basis  of  their  notification  pursuant  to  paragraph  1  b)  of 
Section 8 will send CbC Reports pursuant to paragraph 1, but will not receive 
CbC  Reports  under  this  Agreement.  Competent  Authorities  of  Jurisdictions 
that are not listed as non-reciprocal Jurisdictions will both send and receive the 
information specified in paragraph 1. Competent Authorities will, however, not 
send such information to Competent Authorities of the Jurisdictions included in 
the aforementioned list of non-reciprocal Jurisdictions.

SECTION 3
Time and Manner of Exchange of Information

For  the  purposes  of  the  exchange  of  information  in  Section  2,  the 

1. 
currency of the amounts contained in the CbC Report will be specified.

2. 
With respect to paragraph 1 of Section 2, a CbC Report is first to be 
exchanged, with respect to the fiscal year of the MNE Group commencing 
on or after the date indicated by the Competent Authority in the notification 
pursuant  to  paragraph  1a)  of  Section  8,  as  soon  as  possible  and  no  later 
than  18  months  after  the  last  day  of  that  fiscal  year.  Notwithstanding  the 
foregoing, a CbC Report is only required to be exchanged, if both Competent 
Authorities have this Agreement in effect and their respective Jurisdictions 
have in effect legislation that requires the filing of CbC Reports with respect 
to the fiscal year to which the CbC Report relates and that is consistent with 
the scope of exchange provided for in Section 2.

3. 
Subject to paragraph 2, the CbC Report is to be exchanged as soon as 
possible and no later than 15 months after the last day of the fiscal year of the 
MNE Group to which the CbC Report relates.

The  Competent  Authorities  will  automatically  exchange  the  CbC 

4. 
Reports through a common schema in Extensible Markup Language.

5. 
The  Competent  Authorities  will  work  towards  and  agree  on  one 
or  more  methods  for  electronic  data  transmission,  including  encryption 
standards,  with  a  view  to  maximising  standardisation  and  minimising 
complexities and costs and will notify the Co-ordinating Body Secretariat of 
such standardised transmission and encryption methods.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

574 – ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

SECTION 4
Collaboration on Compliance and Enforcement

A Competent Authority will notify the other Competent Authority when 
the  first-mentioned  Competent  Authority  has  reason  to  believe,  with  respect 
to a Reporting Entity that is resident for tax purposes in the jurisdiction of the 
other Competent Authority, that an error may have led to incorrect or incomplete 
information reporting or that there is non-compliance of a Reporting Entity with 
respect to its obligation to file a CbC Report. The notified Competent Authority 
will take appropriate measures available under its domestic law to address the 
errors or non-compliance described in the notice.

SECTION 5
Confidentiality, Data Safeguards and Appropriate Use

1. 
All information exchanged is subject to the confidentiality rules and 
other  safeguards  provided  for  in  the  Convention,  including  the  provisions 
limiting the use of the information exchanged.

In addition to the restrictions in paragraph 1, the use of the information 
2. 
will  be  further  limited  to  the  permissible  uses  described  in  this  paragraph. 
In particular, information received by means of the CbC Report will be used 
for  assessing  high-level  transfer  pricing,  base  erosion  and  profit  shifting 
related  risks,  and,  where  appropriate,  for  economic  and  statistical  analysis. 
The information will not be used as a substitute for a detailed transfer pricing 
analysis  of  individual  transactions  and  prices  based  on  a  full  functional 
analysis and a full comparability analysis. It is acknowledged that information 
in  the  CbC  Report  on  its  own  does  not  constitute  conclusive  evidence  that 
transfer prices are or are 