 Advantages of advance pricing arrangements

4.153.  An APA programme can assist taxpayers by eliminating uncertainty 
through  enhancing  the  predictability  of  tax  treatment  in  international 
transactions. Provided the critical assumptions are met, an APA can provide 
the  taxpayers  involved  with  certainty  in  the  tax  treatment  of  the  transfer 
pricing issues covered by the APA for a specified period of time. In some 
cases, an APA may also provide an option to extend the period of time to 
which  it  applies.  When  the  term  of  an  APA  expires,  the  opportunity  may 
also  exist  for  the  relevant  tax  administrations  and  taxpayers  to  renegotiate 
the  APA.  Because  of  the  certainty  provided  by  an  APA,  a  taxpayer  may 
be  in  a  better  position  to  predict  its  tax  liabilities,  thereby  providing  a  tax 
environment that is favourable for investment.

4.154.  APAs  can  provide  an  opportunity  for  both  tax  administrations  and 
taxpayers to consult and co-operate in a non-adversarial spirit and environment. 
The  opportunity  to  discuss  complex  tax  issues  in  a  less  confrontational 
atmosphere than in a transfer pricing examination can stimulate a free flow of 
information among all parties involved for the purpose of coming to a legally 
correct and practicably workable result. The non-adversarial environment may 
also result in a more objective review of the submitted data and information 
than  may  occur  in  a  more  adversarial  context  (e.g.  litigation).  The  close 
consultation and co-operation required between the tax administrations in an 
APA programme also leads to closer relations with treaty partners on transfer 
pricing issues.

4.155.  An  APA  may  prevent  costly  and  time-consuming  examinations 
and  litigation  of  major  transfer  pricing  issues  for  taxpayers  and  tax 
administrations. Once an APA has been agreed, less resources may be needed 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 219

for subsequent examination of the taxpayer’s return, because more information 
is known about the taxpayer. It may still be difficult, however, to monitor the 
application of the arrangement. The APA process itself may also present time 
savings for both taxpayers and tax administrations over the time that would 
be spent in a conventional examination, although in the aggregate there may 
be no net time savings, for example, in jurisdictions that do not have an audit 
procedure  and  where  the  existence  of  an  APA  may  not  directly  affect  the 
amount of resources devoted to compliance.

4.156.  Bilateral and multilateral APAs substantially reduce or eliminate the 
possibility of juridical or economic double or non taxation since all the relevant 
jurisdictions participate. By contrast, unilateral APAs do not provide certainty 
in  the  reduction  of  double  taxation  because  tax  administrations  affected  by 
the  transactions  covered  by  the  APA  may  consider  that  the  methodology 
adopted  does  not  give  a  result  consistent  with  the  arm’s  length  principle.  In 
addition, bilateral and multilateral APAs can enhance the mutual agreement 
procedure  by  significantly  reducing  the  time  needed  to  reach  an  agreement 
since competent authorities are dealing with current data as opposed to prior 
year data that may be difficult and time-consuming to produce.

4.157.  The  disclosure  and  information  aspects  of  an  APA  programme  as 
well  as  the  co-operative  attitude  under  which  an  APA  can  be  negotiated 
may assist tax administrations in gaining insight into complex international 
transactions  undertaken  by  MNEs.  An  APA  programme  can  improve 
knowledge and understanding of highly technical and factual circumstances 
in areas such as global trading and the tax issues involved. The development 
of  specialist  skills  that  focus  on  particular  industries  or  specific  types  of 
transactions  will  enable  tax  administrations  to  give  better  service  to  other 
taxpayers  in  similar  circumstances.  Through  an  APA  programme  tax 
administrations have access to useful industry data and analysis of pricing 
methodologies in a co-operative environment.

F.4.  Disadvantages relating to advance pricing arrangements

4.158.  Unilateral APAs may present significant problems for tax administrations 
and  taxpayers  alike.  From  the  point  of  view  of  other  tax  administrations, 
problems arise because they may disagree with the APA’s conclusions. From 
the  point  of  view  of  the  associated  enterprises  involved,  one  problem  is  the 
possible effect on the behaviour of the associated enterprises. Unlike bilateral 
or multilateral APAs, the use of unilateral APAs may not lead to an increased 
level  of  certainty  for  the  taxpayer  involved  and  a  reduction  in  economic 
or  juridical  double  taxation  for  the  MNE  group.