int  in  time  before 
it  has  been  fully  demonstrated  that  the  intangible  will  support  commercially 
viable  products.  A  common  example  arises  in  the  pharmaceutical  industry, 
where chemical compounds may be patented, and the patents (or rights to use 
the patents) transferred in controlled transactions, well in advance of the time 
when further research, development and testing demonstrates that the compound 
constitutes a safe and effective treatment for a particular medical condition.

6.124.  As a general rule, intangibles relating to products with established 
commercial  viability  will  be  more  valuable  than  otherwise  comparable 
intangibles  relating  to  products  whose  commercial  viability  is  yet  to  be 
established.  In  conducting  a  comparability  analysis  involving  partially 
developed intangibles, it is important to evaluate the likelihood that further 
development will lead to commercially significant future benefits. In certain 
circumstances,  industry  data  regarding  the  risks  associated  with  further 
development  can  be  helpful  to  such  evaluations.  However,  the  specific 
circumstances of any individual situation should always be considered.

D.2.1.6. Rights to enhancements, revisions, and updates

6.125.  Often, an important consideration in a comparability analysis involving 
intangibles relates to the rights of the parties with regard to future enhancements, 
revisions and updates of the intangibles. In some industries, products protected 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 285

by intangibles can become obsolete or uncompetitive in a relatively short period 
of  time  in  the  absence  of  continuing  development  and  enhancement  of  the 
intangibles.  As  a  result,  having  access  to  updates  and  enhancements  can  be 
the  difference  between  deriving  a  short  term  advantage  from  the  intangibles 
and deriving a longer term advantage. It is therefore necessary to consider for 
comparability purposes whether or not a particular grant of rights in intangibles 
includes access to enhancements, revisions, and updates of the intangibles.
6.126.  A very similar question, often important in a comparability analysis, 
involves  whether  the  transferee  of  intangibles  obtains  the  right  to  use  the 
intangibles  in  connection  with  research  directed  to  developing  new  and 
enhanced intangibles. For example, the right to use an existing software platform 
as a basis for developing new software products can shorten development times 
and  can  make  the  difference  between  being  the  first  to  market  with  a  new 
product or application, or being forced to enter a market already occupied by 
established  competitive  products.  A  comparability  analysis  with  regard  to 
intangibles should, therefore, consider the rights of the parties regarding the use 
of the intangibles in developing new and enhanced versions of products.

D.2.1.7. Expectation of future benefit

6.127.  Each of the foregoing comparability considerations has a consequence 
with regard to the expectation of the parties to a transaction regarding the future 
benefits  to  be  derived  from  the  use  of  the  intangibles  in  question.  If  for  any 
reason there is a significant discrepancy between the anticipated future benefit 
of  using  one  intangible  as  opposed  to  another,  it  is  difficult  to  consider  the 
intangibles  as  being  sufficiently  comparable  to  support  a  comparables-based 
transfer pricing analysis in the absence of reliable comparability adjustments. 
Specifically,  it  is  important  to  consider  the  actual  and  potential  profitability 
of products or potential products that are based on the intangible. Intangibles 
that  provide  a  basis  for  high  profit  products  or  services  are  not  likely  to  be 
comparable to intangibles that support products or services with only industry 
average profits. Any factor materially affecting the expectation of the parties to 
a controlled transaction of obtaining future benefits from the intangible should 
be taken into account in conducting the comparability analysis.

D.2.2.  Comparison of risk in cases involving transfers of intangibles 

or rights in intangibles

6.128. 
In  conducting  a  comparability  analysis  involving  the  transfer  of 
intangibles or rights in intangibles, the existence of risks related to the likelihood 
of obtaining future economic benefits from the transferred intangibles must be 
considered, including the allocation of risk between the parties which should 
be analysed within the framework set out in Section D.1.2 of Chapter I. The 
following  types  of  risks,  among  others,  should  be  considered  in  evaluating 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

286 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

whether transfers of intangibles or combinations of intangibles are comparable, 
and in evaluating whether 