party providers of information systems process, 

store, and transmit confidential information in accordance with computer security 
requirements

What process does your tax administration maintain to ensure third-party providers are applying appropriate 
security controls that are consistent with computer security requirements for confidential information? Are the 
processes publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

2.15 Media Protection

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Processes to protect information in printed or digital form
•  Security measures used to limit media information access to authorized users only
•  Methods for sanitizing or destroying digital media prior to disposal or reuse

What processes does your tax administration maintain to securely store and limit access to confidential 
information in printed or digital form upon receipt from any source? How does your tax administration securely 
destroy confidential media information prior to its disposal? Are the processes available publicly? If so, please 
provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

ANNEx Iv TO ChAPTER v. COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 57

2.16 Protection of Treaty-Exchanged data (formerly Prevention of Data Commingling)

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Procedures to ensure treaty-exchanged files are safeguarded and clearly labeled
•  Classification methods of treaty-exchanged files

What policies and processes does your tax administration maintain to store confidential information and clearly 
label it as treaty-exchanged after receipt from foreign Competent Authorities? Are these policies and processes 
publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

2.17 Information Disposal Policies

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Procedures for properly disposing paper and electronic files

What procedures does your tax administration maintain for the disposal of confidential information? Do these 
procedures extend to exchanged information from foreign Competent Authorities? Are the procedures publicly 
available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

3. Monitoring and Enforcement

In addition to keeping treaty-exchanged information confidential, tax administrations 
must be able to ensure that its use will be limited to the purposes defined by the applicable 
information  exchange  agreement.  Thus,  compliance  with  an  acceptable  information 
security framework alone is not sufficient to protect treaty-exchanged tax data. In addition, 
domestic law must impose penalties or sanctions for improper disclosure or use of taxpayer 
information.  To  ensure  implementation,  such  laws  must  be  reinforced  by  adequate 
administrative resources and procedures.

3.1 Penalties and Sanctions

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Penalties imposed for unauthorized disclosures
•  Risk mitigation practices

Does your tax administration have the ability to impose penalties for unauthorized disclosures of confidential 
information? Do the penalties extend to unauthorized disclosure of confidential information exchanged with a 
treaty or TIEA partner? Are the penalties publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide 
a summary.

3.2.1 Policing Unauthorized Access and Disclosure

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Monitoring to detect breaches
•  Reporting of breaches

What procedures does your tax administration have to monitor confidentiality breaches? What policies and 
procedures does your tax administration have that require employees and contractors to report actual or potential 
breaches of confidentiality? What reports does your tax administration prepare when a breach of confidentiality 
occurs? Are these policies and procedures publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please 
provide a summary.

3.2.2 Sanctions and Prior Experience

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Prior unauthorized disclosures
•  Policy/process modifications to prevent future breaches

Have there been any cases in your jurisdiction where confidential information has been improperly disclosed? 
Have there been any cases in your jurisdiction where confidential information received by the Competent 
Authority from an exchange of information partner has been disclosed other than in accordance with the terms of 
the instrument under which it was provided? Does your tax administration or Inspector General make available to 
the public descriptions of any breaches, any penalties/sanctions imposed, and changes put in place to mitigate 
risk and prevent future breaches? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

ANNEx Iv TO ChAPTER v. COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 59

Competent Authority Agreeme