ion of the method will depend on the facts and circumstances of the 
case and the information available, but the overriding objective should be to 
approximate as closely as possible the split of profits that would have been 
realised had the parties been independent enterprises.

2.147.  Under the transactional profit split method, the relevant profits are 
to be split between the associated enterprises on an economically valid basis 
that approximates the division of profits that would have been anticipated and 
reflected in an agreement made at arm’s length. In general, the determination 
of the relevant profits to be split and of the profit splitting factors should be:

• 

consistent  with  the  functional  analysis  of  the  controlled  trans-
action under review, and in particular reflect the assumption of the 
economically significant risks by the parties, and

• 

capable of being measured in a reliable manner.

2.148.  In addition,

• 

If the transactional profit split method is used to set transfer pricing 
in  controlled  transactions  at  the  outset,  it  would  be  reasonable  to 
expect  the  life-time  of  the  arrangement  and  the  criteria  or  profit 
splitting factors to be agreed in advance of the transaction,

•  The person using the transactional profit split method (taxpayer or 
tax administration) should be prepared to explain why it is regarded 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 137

as the most appropriate method in the circumstances of the case, as 
well  as  the  way  it  is  implemented,  and  in  particular  the  criteria  or 
profit splitting factors used to split the relevant profits, and

•  The determination of the relevant profits to be split and of the profit 
splitting  factors  should  generally  be  used  consistently  over  the 
life-time  of  the  arrangement,  including  during  loss  years,  unless 
the  rationale  for  using  differing  relevant  profits  or  profit  splitting 
factors over time is supported by the facts and circumstances and is 
documented.

C.3.1. Approaches to splitting profits

2.149.  There are a number of approaches to the application of the transactional 
profit  split  method,  depending  on  the  characteristics  of  the  controlled 
transactions, and the information available. As has been described above, the 
method  seeks  to  split  the  relevant  profits  from  controlled  transactions  on  an 
economically valid basis, in order to approximate the results that would have 
been achieved between independent enterprises in comparable circumstances. 
This  may  be  done  by  considering  the  relative  contributions  of  each  party  (a 
“contribution  analysis”).  Where  the  transactional  profit  split  method  is  the 
most appropriate method but at least one party also makes some less complex 
contributions  which  are  capable  of  being  benchmarked  by  reference  to 
comparable, uncontrolled transactions, a two-stage “residual analysis” may be 
appropriate.

C.3.1.1. Contribution analysis

2.150.  Under a contribution analysis, the relevant profits, which are the total 
profits from the controlled transactions under examination, are divided between 
the associated enterprises in order to arrive at a reasonable approximation of 
the division that independent enterprises would have achieved from engaging 
in  comparable  transactions.  This  division  can  be  supported  by  comparables 
data where available. In the absence thereof, it should be based on the relative 
value of the contributions by each of the associated enterprises participating 
in  the  controlled  transactions,  determined  using  information  internal  to  the 
MNE  group,  as  a  proxy  for  the  division  that  independent  enterprises  would 
have  achieved  (see  Section  C.5.2).  In  cases  where  the  relative  value  of  the 
contributions can be measured, it may not be necessary to estimate the actual 
market value of each party’s contributions.

2.151. 
It can be difficult to determine the relative value of the contribution 
that  each  of  the  associated  enterprises  makes  to  the  relevant  profits,  and 
the  approach  will  depend  on  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  each  case.  The 
determination  might  be  made  by  comparing  the  nature  and  degree  of  each 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

138 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

party’s  contribution  of  differing  types  (for  example,  provision  of  services, 
development expenses incurred, assets used or contributed, capital invested) 
and assigning a percentage based upon the relative comparison and external 
market data. See Section C.5 for a discussion of how to split the relevant profits.

C.3.1.2. Residual analysis

2.152.  Where  the  contributions  of  the  parties  are  such  that  some  can  be 
reliably valued by reference to a one-sided method and benchmarked using 
comparables, while others