lete understanding of the facts and circumstances 
surrounding  the  controlled  transaction,  it  generally  might  be  useful  to 
examine  data  from  both  the  year  under  examination  and  prior  years.  The 
analysis of such information might disclose facts that may have influenced (or 
should have influenced) the determination of the transfer price. For example, 
the use of data from past years will show whether a taxpayer’s reported loss 
on a transaction is part of a history of losses on similar transactions, the result 
of particular economic conditions in a prior year that increased costs in the 
subsequent year, or a reflection of the fact that a product is at the end of its 
life cycle. Such an analysis may be particularly useful where a transactional 
profit method is applied. See paragraph 1.151 on the usefulness of multiple 
year data in examining loss situations. Multiple year data can also improve 
the understanding of long term arrangements.

3.77.  Multiple year data will also be useful in providing information about 
the relevant business and product life cycles of the comparables. Differences 
in  business  or  product  life  cycles  may  have  a  material  effect  on  transfer 
pricing  conditions  that  needs  to  be  assessed  in  determining  comparability. 
The  data  from  earlier  years  may  show  whether  the  independent  enterprise 
engaged in a comparable transaction was affected by comparable economic 
conditions  in  a  comparable  manner,  or  whether  different  conditions  in  an 
earlier year materially affected its price or profit so that it should not be used 
as a comparable.

3.78.  Multiple  year  data  can  also  improve  the  process  of  selecting  third 
party comparables e.g. by identifying results that may indicate a significant 
variance from the underlying comparability characteristics of the controlled 
transaction  being  reviewed,  in  some  cases  leading  to  the  rejection  of  the 
comparable, or to detect anomalies in third party information.

3.79.  The use of multiple year data does not necessarily imply the use of 
multiple year averages. Multiple year data and averages can however be used 
in some circumstances to improve reliability of the range. See paragraphs 3.57-
3.62 for a discussion of statistical tools.

C. Compliance issues

3.80.  One  question  that  arises  when  putting  the  need  for  comparability 
analyses  into  perspective  is  the  extent  of  the  burden  and  costs  that  should 
be borne by a taxpayer to identify possible comparables and obtain detailed 
information thereon. It is recognised that the cost of information can be a real 
concern, especially for small to medium sized operations, but also for those 
MNEs that deal with a very large number of controlled transactions in many 
jurisdictions. Paragraph 4.28 and Chapter V contain explicit recognition of the 
need for a reasonable application of the requirement to document comparability.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS – 171

3.81.  When undertaking a comparability analysis, there is no requirement 
for  an  exhaustive  search  of  all  possible  relevant  sources  of  information. 
Taxpayers  and  tax  administrations  should  exercise  judgment  to  determine 
whether particular comparables are reliable.

3.82. 
It  is  a  good  practice  for  taxpayers  to  set  up  a  process  to  establish, 
monitor and review their transfer prices, taking into account the size of the 
transactions,  their  complexity,  level  of  risk  involved,  and  whether  they  are 
performed  in  a  stable  or  changing  environment.  Such  a  practical  approach 
would conform to a pragmatic risk assessment strategy or prudent business 
management principle. In practice, this means that it may be reasonable for a 
taxpayer to devote relatively less effort to finding information on comparables 
supporting less significant or less material controlled transactions. For simple 
transactions that are carried out in a stable environment and the characteristics 
of  which  remain  the  same  or  similar,  a  detailed  comparability  (including 
functional) analysis may not be needed every year.

3.83. 
Small to medium sized enterprises are entering into the area of transfer 
pricing  and  the  number  of  cross-border  transactions  is  ever  increasing. 
Although the arm’s length principle applies equally to small and medium sized 
enterprises and transactions, pragmatic solutions may be appropriate in order 
to make it possible to find a reasonable response to each transfer pricing case.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 173

Chapter IV 

Administrative approaches to avoiding and resolving 
transfer pricing disputes

A. Introduction

4.1. 
This chapter examines various administrative procedures that could 
be  applied  to  minimise  transfer  pricing  disputes  and  to  help  resolve