ar the costs of creating a new product.

1.96. 
If it is established that the associated enterprise assuming the risk as 
analysed under step 4(i) either does not control the risk or does not have the 
financial capacity to assume the risk, then the analysis described under step 5 
needs to be performed.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

64 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

1.97. 
In  light  of  the  potential  complexity  that  may  arise  in  some 
circumstances when determining whether an associated enterprise assuming 
a  risk  controls  that  risk,  the  test  of  control  should  be  regarded  as  being 
met  where  comparable  risk  assumptions  can  be  identified  in  a  comparable 
uncontrolled transaction. To be comparable those risk assumptions require that 
the economically relevant characteristics of the transactions are comparable. 
If such a comparison is made, it is particularly relevant to establish that the 
enterprise assuming comparable risk in the uncontrolled transaction performs 
comparable  risk  management  functions  relating  to  control  of  that  risk  to 
those performed by the associated enterprise assuming risk in the controlled 
transaction. The purpose of the comparison is to establish that an independent 
party assuming a comparable risk to that assumed by the associated enterprise 
also performs comparable risk management functions to those performed by 
the associated enterprise.

D.1.2.1.5. Step 5: Allocation of risk

1.98. 
If it is established in step 4(ii) that the associated enterprise assuming 
the risk based on steps 1-4(i) does not exercise control over the risk or does 
not  have  the  financial  capacity  to  assume  the  risk,  then  the  risk  should 
be  allocated  to  the  enterprise  exercising  control  and  having  the  financial 
capacity to assume the risk. If multiple associated enterprises are identified 
that  both  exercise  control  and  have  the  financial  capacity  to  assume  the 
risk, then the risk should be allocated to the associated enterprise or group 
of  associated  enterprises  exercising  the  most  control.  The  other  parties 
performing  control  activities  should  be  remunerated  appropriately,  taking 
into account the importance of the control activities performed.

In exceptional circumstances, it may be the case that no associated 
1.99. 
enterprise can be identified that both exercises control over the risk and has 
the  financial  capacity  to  assume  the  risk.  As  such  a  situation  is  not  likely 
to  occur  in  transactions  between  third  parties,  a  rigorous  analysis  of  the 
facts and circumstances of the case will need to be performed, in order to 
identify the underlying reasons and actions that led to this situation. Based 
on that assessment, the tax administrations will determine what adjustments 
to the transaction are needed for the transaction to result in an arm’s length 
outcome.  An  assessment  of  the  commercial  rationality  of  the  transaction 
based on Section D.2 may be necessary.

D.1.2.1.6.  Step 6: Pricing of the transaction, taking account of the 

consequences of risk allocation

1.100.  Following  the  guidance  in  this  section,  the  accurately  delineated 
transaction should then be priced in accordance with the tools and methods 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 65

available  to  taxpayers  and  tax  administrations  set  out  in  the  following 
chapters of these Guidelines and taking into account the financial and other 
consequences of risk-assumption, and the remuneration for risk management. 
The  assumption  of  a  risk  should  be  compensated  with  an  appropriate 
anticipated return, and risk mitigation should be appropriately remunerated. 
Thus, a taxpayer that both assumes and mitigates a risk will be entitled to 
greater anticipated remuneration than a taxpayer that only assumes a risk, or 
only mitigates, but does not do both.

1.101. 
In the circumstances of Example 1 in paragraph 1.83, Company A 
assumes  and  controls  the  development  risk  and  should  bear  the  financial 
consequences  of  failure  and  enjoy  the  financial  consequences  of  success. 
Company  B  should  be  appropriately  rewarded  for  the  carrying  out  of  its 
development services, incorporating the risk that it fails to do so competently.

1.102. 
In the circumstances of Example 2 in paragraph 1.84, the significant 
risks associated with generating a return from the manufacturing activities are 
controlled by Company A, and the upside and downside consequences of those 
risks should therefore be allocated to Company A. Company B controls the 
risk that it fails to competently deliver services, and its remuneration should 
take into account that risk, as well as its funding costs for the acquisition of 
the manufacturing plant. Since the risks in relation to the capacity utilisation 
of the asset are co