etween  the  tax  administrations  and  the  taxpayer  is  not  a  party  to 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

538 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS

such  arrangements,  the  tax  administrations  have  to  rely  on  the  domestic 
confirmation  or  agreement  procedure  described  above  in  order  to  monitor 
the  taxpayer’s  compliance.  If  the  taxpayer  fails  to  abide  by  the  terms  and 
conditions of the MAP APA, then it no longer need be applied. This section 
therefore focuses on the aspects of the domestic procedures necessary for the 
successful implementation of the MAP APA and on the necessary measures 
to ensure the taxpayer’s compliance with all of its terms and conditions.

E.1. Record keeping
The  taxpayer  and  the  tax  administrations  should  agree  the  types 
71. 
of  documents  and  records  (including  any  necessary  translations)  that 
the  taxpayer  must  maintain  and  retain  for  the  purposes  of  verifying  the 
extent  of  the  taxpayer’s  compliance  with  the  MAP  APA.  The  guidance  in 
Chapters IV and V of the Guidelines should be followed in order to avoid 
the  documentation  requirements  becoming  overly  burdensome.  Provisions 
regarding  the  retention  period  and  the  response  time  for  producing  the 
documents and records may also be included.

E.2. Monitoring mechanisms

E.2.1. Annual reports

72. 
For  each  tax  year,  or  accounting  period,  covered  by  the  MAP 
APA, the taxpayer may be required to file, in addition to its tax return, an 
annual  report  describing  the  taxpayer’s  actual  operations  for  the  year  and 
demonstrating compliance with the terms and conditions of the MAP APA, 
including the information necessary to decide if the critical assumptions, or 
other safeguards, have been met. This information should be made available 
by  the  taxpayer  to  the  tax  administration  with  which  it  has  concluded  the 
domestic confirmation or agreement, in the manner provided for under the 
relevant domestic law or procedure.

E.2.2. Audit

73. 
A MAP APA applies only to the parties specified in the agreement 
and  in  respect  of  the  specified  transactions.  The  existence  of  such  an 
agreement  would  not  prevent  the  participating  tax  administrations  from 
undertaking audit activity in the future, although any audit of transactions 
that are covered by the MAP APA would be limited to determining the extent 
of the taxpayer’s compliance with its terms and conditions and whether the 
circumstances and assumptions necessary for the reliable application of the 
chosen methodology continue to exist. The affected tax administrations may 
require the taxpayer to establish that:

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS – 539

a)  The taxpayer has complied with the terms and conditions of the 

MAP APA;

b)  The representations in the proposal, the annual reports and in any 
supporting  documentation,  remain  valid  and  that  any  material 
changes in facts or circumstances have been included in the annual 
reports;

c)  The methodology has been accurately and consistently applied in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the MAP APA; and

d)  The critical assumptions underlying the transfer pricing methodology 

remain valid.

E.3. Consequences of non-compliance or changes in circumstances

In general, the consequences of non-compliance with the terms and 
74. 
conditions of a MAP APA, or the failure to meet a critical assumption, will 
turn on a) the terms of the MAP APA, b) any further agreement between the 
competent authorities as to how to deal with such non-compliance or failure, 
and  c)  any  applicable  domestic  law  or  procedural  provisions.  That  is,  the 
MAP APA itself may explicitly prescribe procedures to follow, or describe 
the consequences that will arise, in situations of non-compliance or failure. In 
such situations, the competent authorities may, at their discretion, enter into 
discussions of what action to take on a case by case basis. Finally, domestic 
law or procedural provisions may impose consequences or obligations on the 
taxpayer and affected tax administration. The following paragraphs provide 
suggested guidelines similar to procedures that have been adopted in some 
jurisdictions  and  which  have,  on  the  whole,  proved  workable.  It  should  be 
emphasised,  however,  that  some  tax  administrations  may  wish  to  adopt 
different procedures and approaches.

75. 
If  the  tax  administrations  determine  that  any  requirement  of  the 
MAP  APA  has  not  been  met,  they  may  nevertheless  agree,  based  on  the 
terms and conditions of the MAP APA, to continue to apply it, for example 
where  the  effect  of  the  failure  to  comply  is  not  material.  If  they  do  not 
agree to continue to apply the MAP APA, there are three options that a tax 
administration could ta