on  the  separate  entity  credit  ratings  that  are  derived  from  publicly 
available financial tools (see paragraph 10.72), the implicit support analysis, 
the  difficulties  of  accounting  for  controlled  transactions  reliably  and  the 
presence of information asymmetry may pose challenges that, if not resolved, 
may result in outcomes that are not reliable.

10.82.  Where  this  is  the  case,  the  credit  rating  of  the  MNE  group  may 
also be used for the purpose of pricing the accurately delineated loan where 
the  facts  so  indicate,  particularly  in  situations  such  as  where  the  MNE  is 
important to the group as described in paragraphs 10.78 and 10.79 and where 
the  MNE’s  indicators  of  creditworthiness  do  not  differ  significantly  from 
those of the group. An MNE group credit rating is unaffected by controlled 
tran sactions and reflects the actual basis on which the group seeks external 
funding from independent lenders. In situations where an MNE group does 
not have an external credit rating, consideration may be given to conducting 
the credit rating analysis at the MNE group level for assessing the controlled 
transaction. In all cases, the MNE group credit rating, like any other credit 
rating,  will  be  appropriate  only  if  it  is  determined  to  be  the  most  reliable 
indicator of the MNE credit rating in light of all the facts and circumstances.

C.1.1.5. Covenants

10.83.  The purpose of covenants in a loan agreement is generally to provide 
a degree of protection to the lender and so limit its risk. That protection may 
be in the form of incurrence covenants or maintenance covenants.

10.84.  Incurrence  covenants  require  or  prohibit  certain  actions  by  the 
borrower  without  the  consent  of  the  lender.  Incurrence  covenants  may,  for 
example,  prohibit  the  borrower  from  taking  on  additional  debt,  creating 
any charge on the assets of the entity or disposing of particular assets of the 
entity,  thus  giving  some  degree  of  certainty  over  the  balance  sheet  of  the 
borrower.

10.85.  Maintenance covenants refer typically to financial indicators which 
have  to  be  met  at  regular,  predetermined  intervals  during  the  life  of  a 
covenanted loan. Maintenance covenants can act as an early warning system 
so  that  in  the  event  of  financial  underperformance  by  the  borrower,  the 
borrower and/or lender can move to take remedial action at an early stage. 
This can help to protect unrelated lenders against information asymmetry.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 421

10.86.  There  may  be  less  information  asymmetry  between  entities  (that 
is,  better  visibility)  in  the  intra-group  context  than  in  situations  involving 
unrelated parties. Intra-group lenders may choose not to have covenants on 
loans to associated enterprises, partly because they are less likely to suffer 
information asymmetry and because it is less likely that one part of an MNE 
group would seek to take the same kind of action as an independent lender 
in the event of a covenant breach, nor would it usually seek to impose the 
same  kind  of  restrictions.  Where  there  is  an  absence  of  covenants  in  any 
written  agreement  between  the  parties,  it  will  be  appropriate  to  consider 
under Chapter I guidance whether there is, in practice, the equivalent of a 
maintenance covenant between the parties and the consequential impact upon 
the pricing of the loan.

C.1.1.6. Guarantees

10.87.  A guarantee from another party may be used to support the borrower’s 
credit.  A  lender  placing  reliance  on  a  guarantee  or  guarantees  would  need 
to evaluate the guarantor(s) in a similar way to that in which it evaluates the 
original borrower. For the lender to take a guarantee into account in setting or 
adjusting the terms and conditions of a loan, it would need to be reasonably 
satisfied  that  the  guarantor(s)  would  be  able  to  meet  any  shortfall  resulting 
from the borrower being unable to meet its obligations in full in the event of a 
default. Guarantees are discussed in more detail in Section D.

C.1.2. Determining the arm’s length interest rate of intra-group loans

10.88.  The  following  paragraphs  present  different  approaches  to  pricing 
intra-group loans. As in any other transfer pricing situation, the selection of 
the most appropriate method should be consistent with the actual transaction 
as  accurately  delineated,  in  particular,  through  a  functional  analysis  (see 
Chapter II).

C.1.2.1. Comparable uncontrolled price method (CUP method)

10.89.  Once  the  actual  transaction  has  been  accurately  delineated,  arm’s 
length interest rates can be sought based on consideration of the credit rating 
of the borrower or the rating of the specific issuance taking into account all 
of the terms and conditions of the loan and comparability factors