 such techniques can be volatile. Small changes in one or 
another of the assumptions underlying the valuation model or in one or more 
of  the  valuation  parameters  can  lead  to  large  differences  in  the  intangible 
value the model produces. A small percentage change in the discount rate, a 
small percentage change in the growth rates assumed in producing financial 
projections, or a small change in the assumptions regarding the useful life 
of the intangible can each have a profound effect on the ultimate valuation. 
Moreover,  this  volatility  is  often  compounded  when  changes  are  made 
simultaneously to two or more valuation assumptions or parameters.

6.159.  The  reliability  of  the  intangible  value  produced  using  a  valuation 
model is particularly sensitive to the reliability of the underlying assumptions 
and estimates on which it is based and on the due diligence and judgment 
exercised in confirming assumptions and in estimating valuation parameters.

6.160.  Because  of  the  importance  of  the  underlying  assumptions  and 
valuation  parameters,  taxpayers  and  tax  administrations  making  use  of 
valuation  techniques  in  determining  arm’s  length  prices  for  transferred 
intangibles should explicitly set out each of the relevant assumptions made in 

as  those  determined  for  accounting  or  tax  purposes,  may  not  properly  reflect 
the  timing  of  cash  flows  which  can  create  a  difference  in  outcome  between 
an income and a cash flow based approach. However, in light of a number of 
considerations, the use of income projections rather than cash flow projections 
may, in some cases, yield a more reliable result in a transfer pricing context as 
a  practical  matter.  Care  must  be  taken,  however,  to  assure  that  either  income 
or  cash  flow  measures  are  applied  in  a  consistent  manner  and  in  appropriate 
circumstances. References to cash flow in this document should therefore be read 
broadly to include both cash flow and income measures, appropriately applied.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

296 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

creating the valuation model, should describe the basis for selecting valuation 
parameters,  and  should  be  prepared  to  defend  the  reasonableness  of  such 
assumptions  and  valuation  parameters.  Moreover,  it  is  a  good  practice  for 
taxpayers relying on valuation techniques to present as part of their transfer 
pricing documentation some sensitivity analysis reflecting the consequential 
change in estimated intangible value produced by the model when alternative 
assumptions and parameters are adopted.

6.161. 
It  may  be  relevant  in  assessing  the  reliability  of  a  valuation  model 
to  consider  the  purposes  for  which  the  valuation  was  undertaken  and  to 
examine  the  assumptions  and  valuation  parameters  in  different  valuations 
undertaken by the taxpayer for non-tax purposes. It would be reasonable for 
a tax administration to request an explanation for any inconsistencies in the 
assumptions  made  in  a  valuation  of  an  intangible  undertaken  for  transfer 
pricing purposes and valuations undertaken for other purposes. For example, 
such requests would be appropriate if high discount rates are used in a transfer 
pricing  analysis  when  the  company  routinely  uses  lower  discount  rates  in 
evaluating  possible  mergers  and  acquisitions.  Such  requests  would  also  be 
appropriate if it is asserted that particular intangibles have short useful lives 
but the projections used in other business planning contexts demonstrate that 
related intangibles produce cash flows in years beyond the “useful life” that 
has been claimed for transfer pricing purposes. Valuations used by an MNE 
group  in  making  operational  business  decisions  may  be  more  reliable  than 
those prepared exclusively for purposes of a transfer pricing analysis.

6.162.  The  following  sections  identify  some  of  the  specific  concerns  that 
should  be  taken  into  account  in  evaluating  certain  important  assumptions 
underlying  calculations  in  a  valuation  model  based  on  discounted  cash 
flows.  These  concerns  are  important  in  evaluating  the  reliability  of  the 
particular application of a valuation technique. Notwithstanding the various 
concerns expressed above and outlined in detail in the following paragraphs, 
depending on the circumstances, application of such a valuation technique, 
either  as  part  of  one  of  the  five  OECD  transfer  pricing  methods  or  as  a 
useful  tool,  may  prove  to  be  more  reliable  than  application  of  any  other 
transfer pricing method, particularly where reliable comparable uncontrolled 
transactions do not exist.

D.2.6.4.1. Accuracy of financial projections

6.163.  The reliability of a valuation of a transferred intangible using discounted 
cash  flow  valuation  techniques  is  dependent  on  the 