 permanent 
establishment tax jurisdiction for regulatory purposes.

Accumulated Earnings

In the ninth column of the template, the Reporting MNE should report 
the  sum  of  the  total  accumulated  earnings  of  all  the  Constituent  Entities 
resident for tax purposes in the relevant tax jurisdiction as of the end of the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX III TO CHAPTER V: C. TEMPLATE FOR THE COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORT – SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS – 557

year. With regard to permanent establishments, accumulated earnings should 
be reported by the legal entity of which it is a permanent establishment.

Number of Employees

In the tenth column of the template, the Reporting MNE should report 
the total number of employees on a full-time equivalent (FTE) basis of all the 
Constituent Entities resident for tax purposes in the relevant tax jurisdiction. 
The number of employees may be reported as of the year-end, on the basis 
of average employment levels for the year, or on any other basis consistently 
applied  across  tax  jurisdictions  and  from  year  to  year.  For  this  purpose, 
independent contractors participating in the ordinary operating activities of 
the Constituent Entity may be reported as employees. Reasonable rounding or 
approximation of the number of employees is permissible, providing that such 
rounding or approximation does not materially distort the relative distribution 
of  employees  across  the  various  tax  jurisdictions.  Consistent  approaches 
should be applied from year to year and across entities.

Tangible Assets other than Cash and Cash Equivalents

In  the  eleventh  column  of  the  template,  the  Reporting  MNE  should 
report the sum of the net book values of tangible assets of all the Constituent 
Entities resident for tax purposes in the relevant tax jurisdiction. With regard 
to permanent establishments, assets should be reported by reference to the 
tax jurisdiction in which the permanent establishment is situated. Tangible 
assets for this purpose do not include cash or cash equivalents, intangibles, 
or financial assets.

List of all the Constituent Entities of the MNE group included in 
each aggregation per tax jurisdiction (Table 2)

Constituent Entities Resident in the Tax Jurisdiction

The Reporting MNE should list, on a tax jurisdiction-by-tax jurisdiction 
basis and by legal entity name, all the Constituent Entities of the MNE group 
which are resident for tax purposes in the relevant tax jurisdiction. As stated 
above  with  regard  to  permanent  establishments,  however,  the  permanent 
establishment should be listed by reference to the tax jurisdiction in which it 
is situated. The legal entity of which it is a permanent establishment should 
be noted (e.g. XyZ Corp – Tax Jurisdiction A permanent establishment).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

558 – ANNEX III TO CHAPTER V: C. TEMPLATE FOR THE COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORT – SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS

Tax Jurisdiction of Organisation or Incorporation if Different from 
Tax Jurisdiction of Residence

The Reporting MNE should report the name of the tax jurisdiction under 
whose laws the Constituent Entity of the MNE is organised or incorporated 
if it is different from the tax jurisdiction of residence.

Main Business Activity(ies)

The  Reporting  MNE  should  determine  the  nature  of  the  main  business 
activity(ies) carried out by the Constituent Entity in the relevant tax jurisdiction, 
by ticking one or more of the appropriate boxes.

Business Activities

Research and Development

Holding or Managing Intellectual Property

Purchasing or Procurement

Manufacturing or Production

Sales, Marketing or Distribution

Administrative, Management or Support Services

Provision of Services to Unrelated Parties

Internal Group Finance

Regulated Financial Services

Insurance

Holding Shares or Other Equity Instruments

Dormant

Other 1

1. Please specify the nature of the activity of the Constituent Entity in the “Additional 
Information” section.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 559

Annex IV to Chapter V 

Country-by-Country Reporting Implementation Package

Introduction

In  order  to  facilitate  a  consistent  and  swift  implementation  of  the 
Country-by-Country  Reporting  developed  under  Action  13  of  the  Base 
Erosion and Profit Shifting Action Plan (BEPS Action Plan, OECD, 2013), a 
Country-by-Country Reporting Implementation Package has been developed. 
This implementation package consists of (i) model legislation which could 
be  used  by  jurisdictions  to  require  the  ultimate  parent  entity  of  an  MNE 
group to file the Country-by-Country Report in its jurisdiction of residence 
including  backup  filing  requirements  and  (ii)  three  model  Competent 
Authority  Agreements  that  are  to  be  used  to  facilitate  implementation  of 
the exchange of Country-by-