ty data can provide reliable comparables for a taxpayer’s controlled 
transactions (or set of transactions aggregated consistently with the guidance in 
paragraphs 3.9-3.12). In practice, available third party data are often aggregated 
data,  at  a  company-wide  or  segment  level,  depending  on  the  applicable 
accounting  standards.  Whether  such  non-transactional  third  party  data  can 
provide reliable comparables for the taxpayer’s controlled transaction or set of 
transactions aggregated consistently with the guidance in paragraphs 3.9-3.12 
depends in particular on whether the third party performs a range of materially 
different transactions. Where segmented data are available, they can provide 
better  comparables  than  company-wide,  non-segmented  data,  because  of  a 
more  transactional  focus,  although  it  is  recognised  that  segmented  data  can 
raise  issues  in  relation  to  the  allocation  of  expenses  to  various  segments. 
Similarly,  company-wide  third  party  data  may  provide  better  comparables 
than third party segmented data in certain circumstances, such as where the 
activities  reflected  in  the  comparables  correspond  to  the  set  of  controlled 
transactions of the taxpayer.

A.4.5. Limitations in available comparables

3.38.  The identification of potential comparables has to be made with the 
objective  of  finding  the  most  reliable  data,  recognising  that  they  will  not 
always be perfect. For instance, independent transactions may be scarce in 
certain markets and industries. A pragmatic solution may need to be found, 
on a case-by-case basis, such as broadening the search and using information 
on  uncontrolled  transactions  taking  place  in  the  same  industry  and  a 
comparable  geographical  market,  but  performed  by  third  parties  that  may 
have different business strategies, business models or other slightly different 
economic  circumstances;  information  on  uncontrolled  transactions  taking 
place in the same industry but in other geographical markets; or information 
on uncontrolled transactions taking place in the same geographical market 
but  in  other  industries.  The  choice  among  these  various  options  will 
depend on the facts and circumstances of the case, and in particular on the 
significance of the expected effects of comparability defects on the reliability 
of the analysis.

3.39.  A transactional profit split method might in appropriate circumstances 
be considered without comparable data, e.g. where the absence of comparable 
data is due to the presence of unique and valuable intangibles contributed by 
each party to the transaction (see paragraph 2.119). However, even in cases 
where comparable data are scarce and imperfect, the selection of the most 
appropriate transfer pricing method should be consistent with the functional 
analysis of the parties, see paragraph 2.2.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS – 161

A.5.  Selecting or rejecting potential comparables

3.40.  There are basically two ways in which the identification of potentially 
comparable third party transactions can be conducted.

3.41.  The  first  one,  which  can  be  qualified  as  the  “additive”  approach, 
consists of the person making the search drawing up a list of third parties that 
are believed to carry out potentially comparable transactions. Information is 
then  collected  on  transactions  conducted  by  these  third  parties  to  confirm 
whether  they  are  in  effect  acceptable  comparables,  based  on  the  pre-
determined comparability criteria. This approach arguably gives well-focused 
results – all the transactions retained in the analysis are carried out by well-
known players in the taxpayer’s market. As indicated above, in order to ensure 
a sufficient degree of objectivity it is important that the process followed be 
transparent, systematic and verifiable. The “additive” approach may be used 
as the sole approach where the person making the search has knowledge of 
a  few  third  parties  that  are  engaged  in  transactions  that  are  comparable  to 
the  examined  controlled  transaction.  It  is  worth  noting  that  the  “additive” 
approach presents similarities with the approach followed when identifying 
internal comparables. In practice, an “additive” approach may encompass both 
internal and external comparables.

3.42.  The  second  possibility,  the  “deductive”  approach,  starts  with  a 
wide  set  of  companies  that  operate  in  the  same  sector  of  activity,  perform 
similar  broad  functions  and  do  not  present  economic  characteristics  that 
are obviously different. The list is then refined using selection criteria and 
publicly available information (e.g. from databases, Internet sites, information 
on known competitors of the taxpayer). In practice, the “deductive” approach 
typically starts with a search on a database. It is 