of  such  ongoing  concern  should  reflect,  among  other  things,  the  value  of 
the facility and the impact (e.g. time and expense savings) of the assembled 
workforce on the arm’s length price. For a discussion on the transfer pricing 
treatment of assembled workforce, see Section D.7 of Chapter I.

9.69. 
The determination of the arm’s length compensation for a transfer of an 
ongoing concern does not necessarily amount to the sum of the separate valuations 
of each separate element that comprises the aggregate transfer. In particular, if the 
transfer of an ongoing concern comprises multiple contemporaneous transfers of 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

382 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

interrelated assets, risks, or functions, valuation of those transfers on an aggregate 
basis may be necessary to achieve the most reliable measure of the arm’s length 
price for the ongoing concern. Valuation techniques that are used, in acquisition 
deals, between independent parties may prove useful to valuing the transfer of 
an ongoing concern between associated enterprises. The guidance on the use of 
valuation techniques for trans actions involving the transfer of intangibles or rights 
in intangibles contained in Section D.2.6.3 of Chapter VI should be considered.

9.70.  An example is the case where a manufacturing activity that used to 
be performed by M1, one entity of the MNE group, is re-located to another 
entity, M2 (e.g. to benefit from location savings). Assume M1 transfers to M2 
its machinery and equipment, inventories, patents, manufacturing processes 
and  know-how,  and  key  contracts  with  suppliers  and  clients.  Assume  that 
several employees of M1 are relocated to M2 in order to assist M2 in the start 
of the manufacturing activity so relocated. Assume such a transfer would be 
regarded as a transfer of an ongoing concern, should it take place between 
independent parties. In order to determine the arm’s length remuneration, if 
any, of such a transfer between associated enterprises, it should be compared 
with  a  transfer  of  an  ongoing  concern  between  independent  parties  rather 
than with a transfer of isolated assets.

E.3.2. Loss-making activities

9.71.  Not every case where a restructured entity experiences a reduction of 
its functions, assets and risks involves an actual loss of expected future profits. 
In some restructuring situations, the circumstances may be such that, rather 
than losing a “profit-making opportunity”, the restructured entity is actually 
being  saved  from  the  likelihood  of  a  “loss-making  opportunity”.  An  entity 
may  agree  to  a  restructuring  as  a  better  option  than  going  out  of  business 
altogether.  If  the  restructured  entity  is  forecasting  future  losses  absent  the 
restructuring  (e.g.  it  operates  a  manufacturing  plant  that  is  uneconomic 
due  to  increasing  competition  from  low-cost  imports),  then  there  may  be 
in  fact  no  loss  of  any  profit-making  opportunity  from  restructuring  rather 
than continuing to operate its existing business. In such circumstances, the 
restructuring might deliver a benefit to the restructured entity from reducing 
or eliminating future losses if such losses exceed the restructuring costs.

9.72.  The  question  may  arise  of  whether  the  transferee  should  in  fact 
be  compensated  by  the  transferor  for  taking  over  a  loss-making  activity. 
The  response  depends  on  whether  an  independent  party  in  comparable 
circumstances  would  have  been  willing  to  pay  for  getting  rid  of  the  loss-
making activity, or whether it would have considered other options such as 
closing  down  the  activity;  and  on  whether  a  third  party  would  have  been 
willing to acquire the loss-making activity (e.g. because of possible synergies 
with  its  own  activities)  and  if  so  under  what  conditions,  e.g.  subject  to 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 383

compensation. There can be circumstances where an independent party would 
be willing to pay, e.g. if the financial costs and social risks of closing down the 
activity would be such that the transferor finds it more advantageous to pay a 
transferee who will attempt to reconvert the activity and will be responsible 
for any redundancy plan that may be needed.

9.73.  The  situation  might  however  be  different  where  the  loss-making 
activity  provided  other  benefits  such  as  synergies  with  other  activities 
performed by the same taxpayer. There can also be circumstances where a 
loss-making activity is maintained because it produces some benefits to the 
group as a whole. In such a case, the question arises whether at arm’s length 
the entity that maintains the loss-making activity should be compensated by 
those who benefit from it being maintained. See Section D.3 of Chapter I.

E.4. Outsourcing

9.74. 
In o