  the  CCA,  in  order  to  be  consistent  with  the  arm’s  length  principle.  In 
determining the value of contributions to a CCA the guidance elsewhere in 
these Guidelines should be followed.

8.26. 
In  valuing  contributions,  distinctions  should  be  drawn  between 
contributions of pre-existing value and current contributions. For example, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS – 347

in a CCA for the development of an intangible, the contribution of patented 
technology by one of the participants reflects a contribution of pre-existing 
value which is useful towards the development of the intangible that is the 
objective  of  the  CCA.  The  value  of  that  technology  should  be  determined 
under  the  arm’s  length  principle  using  the  guidance  in  Chapter  I-III  and 
Chapter  VI,  including,  where  appropriate,  the  use  of  valuation  techniques 
as set out in that Chapter. The current R&D activity under the development 
CCA  performed  by  one  or  more  associated  enterprises  would  constitute 
a  current  contribution.  The  value  of  current  functional  contributions  is 
not  based  on  the  potential  value  of  the  resulting  further  application  of  the 
technology, but on the value of the functions performed. The potential value 
of the resulting further application of the technology is taken into account 
through the value of pre-existing contributions and through the sharing of the 
development risk in proportion to the expected share of benefits by the CCA 
participants.  The  value  of  the  current  contributions  should  be  determined 
under the guidance in Chapters I-III, VI and VII. As noted in paragraph 6.79, 
compensation  based  on  a  reimbursement  of  cost  plus  a  modest  mark-up 
will  not  reflect  that  anticipated  value  of,  or  the  arm’s  length  price  for,  the 
contribution of the research team in all cases.

8.27.  While  all  contributions  should  be  measured  at  value  (but  see 
paragraph  8.28  below),  it  may  be  more  administrable  for  taxpayers  to 
pay  current  contributions  at  cost.  This  may  be  particularly  relevant  for 
development CCAs. If this approach is adopted, the pre-existing contributions 
should recover the opportunity cost of the ex ante commitment to contribute 
resources to the CCA. For example, a contractual arrangement (i.e. the CCA) 
that commits an existing R&D workforce to undertake work for the benefit of 
the CCA should reflect the opportunity cost of alternative R&D endeavours 
(e.g. the present value of the arm’s length mark-up over R&D costs) in the 
pre-existing contributions, while contributing current activities at cost (see 
Example 1A in the Annex to this chapter).

8.28.  Whereas  it  cannot  be  assumed  that  the  value  of  pre-existing 
contributions corresponds to costs, it is sometimes the case that cost could be 
used as a practical means to measure relative value of current contributions. 
Where the difference between the value and costs is relatively insignificant, for 
practical reasons, current contributions of a similar nature may be measured 
at  cost  in  such  cases  for  services  CCAs.  However,  in  other  circumstances 
(for example where contributions provided by the participants vary in nature 
and  include  a  mixture  of  service  types  and/or  intangibles  or  other  assets) 
measuring current contributions at cost is unlikely to provide a reliable basis 
for determining the value of the relative contributions of participants, and may 
lead  to  non-arm’s  length  results.  For  development  CCAs,  the  measurement 
of  current  contributions  at  cost  (apart  from  the  administrative  guidance  in 
paragraph 8.27) will generally not provide a reliable basis for the application 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

348 – CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS

of the arm’s length principle. See Examples 1-3 in the Annex to this chapter 
for illustration of this guidance. Where uncontrolled arrangements are claimed 
to be comparable to the arrangements between the associated enterprises in 
the CCA, and those uncontrolled arrangements provide for contributions to 
be  made  at  cost,  it  is  important  to  consider  the  comparability  of  all  of  the 
economically relevant characteristics of the transactions in the broader context 
of  the  arrangement,  including  the  impact  of  any  broader  arrangement  of 
economically related transactions which may exist between the parties to the 
uncontrolled transaction, and the sharing of risks. Particular attention should 
be paid to whether other payments are made in the uncontrolled arrangements; 
for example, stage payments or compensating contributions may be made in 
addition to the reimbursement of costs.

8.29. 
Since  contributions  are  based  on  expected  benefits,  this  generally 
implies that where a cost reimbursement basis fo