expected  that  under  the  appropriate  circumstances 
the  experience  with  APAs  will  continue  to  expand.  The  success  of  APA 
programmes will depend on the care taken in determining the proper degree 
of  specificity  for  the  arrangement  based  on  critical  assumptions,  the  proper 
administration of the programme, and the presence of adequate safeguards to 
avoid the pitfalls described above, in addition to the flexibility and openness 
with which all parties approach the process.

4.171.  There are some continuing issues regarding the form and scope of 
APAs that require greater experience for full resolution and agreement among 
member countries, such as the question of unilateral APAs. The Committee 
on Fiscal Affairs intends to monitor carefully any expanded use of APAs and 
to promote greater consistency in practice among those countries that choose 
to use them.

F.5.2. Coverage of an arrangement

4.172.  When considering the scope of an APA, taxpayers and tax administrations 
need to pay close attention to the reliability of any predictions so as to exclude 
unreliable predictions. In general, great care must be taken if the APA goes 
beyond  the  methodology,  its  application,  and  critical  assumptions.  See 
paragraphs 4.134-4.139.

F.5.3. Unilateral versus bilateral (multilateral) arrangements

4.173.  Wherever  possible,  an  APA  should  be  concluded  on  a  bilateral 
or  multilateral  basis  between  competent  authorities  through  the  mutual 
agreement procedure of the relevant treaty. A bilateral APA carries less risk 
of taxpayers feeling compelled to enter into an APA or to accept a non-arm’s-
length agreement in order to avoid expensive and prolonged enquiries and 
possible penalties. A bilateral APA also significantly reduces the chance of 
any profits either escaping tax altogether or being doubly taxed, Moreover, 
concluding  an  APA  through  the  mutual  agreement  procedure  may  be  the 
only form that can be adopted by a tax administration which lacks domestic 
legislation to conclude binding agreements directly with the taxpayer.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

224 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

F.5.4. Equitable access to APAs for all taxpayers

4.174.  As  discussed  above,  the  nature  of  APA  proceedings  may  de  facto 
limit their accessibility to large taxpayers. The restriction of APAs to large 
taxpayers  may  raise  questions  of  equality  and  uniformity,  since  taxpayers 
in identical situations should not be treated differently. A flexible allocation 
of examination resources may alleviate these concerns. Tax administrations 
also may need to consider the possibility of adopting a streamlined access for 
small taxpayers. Tax administrations should take care to adapt their levels 
of inquiry, in evaluating APAs, to the size of the international transactions 
involved.

F.5.5.  Developing working agreements between competent authorities 

and improved procedures

4.175.  Between  those  jurisdictions  that  use  APAs,  greater  uniformity  in 
APA practices could be beneficial to both tax administrations and taxpayers. 
Accordingly, the tax administrations of such jurisdictions may wish to consider 
working  agreements  with  the  competent  authorities  for  the  undertaking  of 
APAs. These agreements may set forth general guidelines and understandings 
for the reaching of mutual agreement in cases where a taxpayer has requested 
an APA involving transfer pricing issues.
4.176. 
In  addition,  bilateral  APAs  with  treaty  partners  should  conform 
to  certain  requirements.  For  example,  the  same  necessary  and  pertinent 
information should be made available to each tax administration at the same 
time,  and  the  agreed  upon  methodology  should  be  in  accordance  with  the 
arm’s length principle.

G. Arbitration

4.177.  As trade and investment have taken on an increasingly international 
character, the tax disputes that, on occasion, arise from such activities have 
likewise  become  increasingly  international.  And  more  particularly,  the 
disputes no longer involve simply controversy between a taxpayer and its tax 
administration but also concern disagreements between tax administrations 
themselves.  In  many  of  these  situations,  the  MNE  group  is  primarily  a 
stakeholder  and  the  real  parties  in  interest  are  the  governments  involved. 
Although  traditionally  problems  of  double  taxation  have  been  resolved 
through the mutual agreement procedure, relief is not guaranteed if the tax 
administrations, after consultation, cannot reach an agreement on their own 
and if there is no mechanism, such as an arbitration clause similar to the one of 
paragraph 5 of Article 25, to provide the possibility of a resolution. However, 
where a particular tax treaty contains an arbitration clause similar to the one 
of paragraph 5 of Article 25, this extension of the mutual agreement proced