 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEx III TO ChAPTER v. TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION – COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORT – 31

B. Template for the Country-by-Country Report – General instructions

Purpose

This Annex III to Chapter v of these Guidelines contains a template for reporting a 
multinational enterprise’s (MNE) group allocation of income, taxes and business activities 
on a tax jurisdiction-by-tax jurisdiction basis. These instructions form an integral part of 
the model template for the Country-by-Country Report.

Definitions

Reporting MNE

A Reporting MNE is the ultimate parent entity of an MNE group.

Constituent Entity

For purposes of completing Annex III, a Constituent Entity of the MNE group is (i) any 
separate  business  unit  of  an  MNE  group  that  is  included  in  the  Consolidated  Financial 
Statements of the MNE group for financial reporting purposes, or would be so included if 
equity interests in such business unit of the MNE group were traded on a public securities 
exchange; (ii) any such business unit that is excluded from the MNE group’s Consolidated 
Financial  Statements  solely  on  size  or  materiality  grounds;  and  (iii)  any  permanent 
establishment of any separate business unit of the MNE group included in (i) or (ii) above 
provided  the  business  unit  prepares  a  separate  financial  statement  for  such  permanent 
establishment for financial reporting, regulatory, tax reporting, or internal management 
control purposes.

Treatment of Branches and Permanent Establishments

The  permanent  establishment  data  should  be  reported  by  reference  to  the  tax 
jurisdiction in which it is situated and not by reference to the tax jurisdiction of residence of 
the business unit of which the permanent establishment is a part. Residence tax jurisdiction 
reporting  for  the  business  unit  of  which  the  permanent  establishment  is  a  part  should 
exclude financial data related to the permanent establishment.

Consolidated Financial Statements

The Consolidated Financial Statements are the financial statements of an MNE group 
in  which  the  assets,  liabilities,  income,  expenses  and  cash  flows  of  the  ultimate  parent 
entity and the Constituent Entities are presented as those of a single economic entity.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

32 – ANNEx III TO ChAPTER v. TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION – COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORT

Period covered by the annual template

The  template  should  cover  the  fiscal  year  of  the  Reporting  MNE.  For  Constituent 
Entities, at the discretion of the Reporting MNE, the template should reflect on a consistent 
basis either (i) information for the fiscal year of the relevant Constituent Entities ending 
on the same date as the fiscal year of the Reporting MNE, or ending within the 12 month 
period  preceding  such  date,  or  (ii)  information  for  all  the  relevant  Constituent  Entities 
reported for the fiscal year of the Reporting MNE.

Source of data

The Reporting MNE should consistently use the same sources of data from year to 
year  in  completing  the  template.  The  Reporting  MNE  may  choose  to  use  data  from  its 
consolidation  reporting  packages,  from  separate  entity  statutory  financial  statements, 
regulatory financial statements, or internal management accounts. It is not necessary to 
reconcile the revenue, profit and tax reporting in the template to the consolidated financial 
statements. If statutory financial statements are used as the basis for reporting, all amounts 
should be translated to the stated functional currency of the Reporting MNE at the average 
exchange  rate  for  the  year  stated  in  the  Additional  Information  section  of  the  template. 
Adjustments need not be made, however, for differences in accounting principles applied 
from tax jurisdiction to tax jurisdiction.

The Reporting MNE should provide a brief description of the sources of data used in 
preparing the template in the Additional Information section of the template. If a change 
is made in the source of data used from year to year, the Reporting MNE should explain 
the reasons for the change and its consequences in the Additional Information section of 
the template.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

ANNEx III TO ChAPTER v. TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION – COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORT – 33

C. Template for the Country-by-Country Report – Specific instructions

Overview of allocation of income, taxes and business activities by tax jurisdiction 
(Table 1)

Tax Jurisdiction

In  the  first  column  of  the  template,  the  Reporting  MNE  should  list  all  of  the  tax 
jurisdictions in which Constituent Entities of the MNE group are resident for tax purposes. 
A tax jurisdiction is defined as a State as well as a non-State jurisdiction which has fiscal 
autonomy. A separate line should be included for all Constituent Entities