le  to  its  members,  in  particular  administrative,  technical, 
financial and commercial services. Such services may include management, 
co-ordination  and  control  functions  for  the  whole  group.  The  cost  of 
providing such services may be borne initially by the parent, by one or more 
specially  designated  group  members  (“a  group  service  centre”),  or  other 
group members. An independent enterprise in need of a service may acquire 
the services from a service provider who specialises in that type of service or 
may perform the service for itself (i.e. in-house). In a similar way, a member 
of  an  MNE  group  in  need  of  a  service  may  acquire  it  from  independent 
enterprises,  or  from  one  or  more  associated  enterprises  in  the  same  MNE 
group  (i.e.  intra-group),  or  may  perform  the  service  for  itself.  Intra-group 
services  often  include  those  that  are  typically  available  externally  from 
independent enterprises (such as legal and accounting services), in addition 
to  those  that  are  ordinarily  performed  internally  (e.g.  by  an  enterprise  for 
itself, such as central auditing, financing advice, or training of personnel). It 
is not in the interests of an MNE group to incur costs unnecessarily, and it is 
in the interest of an MNE group to provide intra-group services efficiently. 
Application of the guidance in this chapter should ensure that services are 
appropriately identified and associated costs appropriately allocated within 
the MNE group in accordance with the arm’s length principle.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
314 – CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES

7.3. 
Intra-group  arrangements  for  rendering  services  are  sometimes 
linked to arrangements for transferring goods or intangibles (or the licensing 
thereof).  In  some  cases,  such  as  know-how  contracts  containing  a  service 
element,  it  may  be  very  difficult  to  determine  where  the  exact  border  lies 
between the transfer of intangibles or rights in intangibles and the provision 
of  services.  Ancillary  services  are  frequently  associated  with  the  transfer 
of  technology.  It  may  therefore  be  necessary  to  consider  the  principles  for 
aggregation  and  segregation  of  transactions  in  Chapter  III  where  a  mixed 
transfer of services and property is involved.

7.4. 
Intra-group  services  may  vary  considerably  among  MNE  groups, 
as does the extent to which those services provide a benefit, or an expected 
benefit,  to  one  or  more  group  members.  Each  case  is  dependent  upon  its 
own  facts  and  circumstances  and  the  arrangements  within  the  group.  For 
example, in a decentralised group, the parent company may limit its intra-
group activity to monitoring its investments in its subsidiaries in its capacity 
as a shareholder. In contrast, in a centralised or integrated group, the board of 
directors and senior management of the parent company may make important 
decisions concerning the affairs of its subsidiaries, and the parent company 
may support the implementation of these decisions by performing general and 
administrative activities for its subsidiaries as well as operational activities 
such as treasury management, marketing, and supply chain management.

B. Main issues

7.5. 
There  are  two  issues  in  the  analysis  of  transfer  pricing  for  intra-
group services. One issue is whether intra-group services have in fact been 
provided. The other issue is what the intra-group charge for such services for 
tax purposes should be in accordance with the arm’s length principle. Each 
of these issues is discussed below.

B.1. Determining whether intra-group services have been rendered

B.1.1. Benefits test

7.6. 
Under the arm’s length principle, the question whether an intra-group 
service  has  been  rendered  when  an  activity  is  performed  for  one  or  more 
group  members  by  another  group  member  should  depend  on  whether  the 
activity provides a respective group member with economic or commercial 
value to enhance or maintain its business position. This can be determined by 
considering whether an independent enterprise in comparable circumstances 
would  have  been  willing  to  pay  for  the  activity  if  performed  for  it  by  an 
independent  enterprise  or  would  have  performed  the  activity  in-house  for 
itself. If the activity is not one for which the independent enterprise would 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES – 315

have been willing to pay or perform for itself, the activity ordinarily should 
not be considered as an intra-group service under the arm’s length principle.

7.7. 
The  analysis  described  above  quite  clearly  depends  on  the  actual 
facts  and  circumstances,  and  it  is  not  possible  in  the  abstract  to  set  forth 
categorically the activities that do or do not constitute the rendering of in