D 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 605

is  the  legal  owner  of  the  intangibles,  its  contribution  to  the  arrangement  is 
solely  the  provision  of  funding  for  the  development  of  an  intangible.  This 
analysis shows that Company A contractually assumes the financial risk, has 
the financial capacity to assume that risk, and exercises control over that risk 
in accordance with the principles outlined in paragraphs 6.63 and 6.64. Taking 
into account Company A’s contributions, as well as the realistic alternatives of 
Company A and Company B, it is determined that Company A’s anticipated 
remuneration  should  be  a  risk-adjusted  return  on  its  funding  commitment. 
Assume that this is determined to be USD 110 million per year (for years 6 
to  15),  which  equates  to  an  11%  risk-adjusted  anticipated  financial  return.1 
Company B, accordingly, would be entitled to all remaining anticipated income 
after accounting for Company A’s anticipated return, or USD 440 million per 
year (USD 550 million minus USD 110 million), rather than USD 200 million 
per year as claimed by the taxpayer. (Based on the detailed functional analysis 
and application of the most appropriate method, the taxpayer incorrectly chose 
Company B as the tested party rather than Company A).

Example 7

Primero  is  the  parent  company  of  an  MNE  group  engaged  in  the 
16. 
pharmaceutical business and does business in Country M. Primero develops 
patents and other intangibles relating to Product X and registers those patents 
in countries around the world.

17. 
Primero retains its wholly owned Country N subsidiary, Company S, to 
distribute Product X throughout Europe and the Middle East on a limited risk 
basis. The distribution agreement provides that Primero, and not Company S, 
is to bear product recall and product liability risk, and provides further that 
Primero  will  be  entitled  to  all  profit  or  loss  from  selling  Product  X  in  the 
territory after providing Company S with the agreed level of compensation for 
its distribution functions. Operating under the contract, Company S purchases 
Product  X  from  Primero  and  resells  Product  X  to  independent  customers 
in  countries  throughout  its  geographical  area  of  operation.  In  performing 
its  distribution  functions,  Company  S  follows  all  applicable  regulatory 
requirements.

18. 
In  the  first  three  years  of  operations,  Company  S  earns  returns 
from  its  distribution  functions  that  are  consistent  with  its  limited  risk 

1. 

For  purposes  of  this  example,  it  is  not  necessary  to  derive  these  results.  The 
example assumes that making a funding “investment” of USD 100 million per 
year for five years in a project with this level of risk should earn at arm’s length 
anticipated profits of USD 110 million per year for the following ten years. This 
corresponds to an 11% return on funding.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

606 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES

characterisation and the terms of the distribution contract. Its returns reflect 
the fact that Primero, and not Company S, is entitled to retain income derived 
from exploitation of the intangibles with respect to Product X. After three 
years of operation, it becomes apparent that Product X causes serious side 
effects in a significant percentage of those patients that use the product and 
it becomes necessary to recall the product and remove it from the market. 
Company S incurs substantial costs in connection with the recall. Primero 
does  not  reimburse  Company  S  for  these  recall  related  costs  or  for  the 
resulting product liability claims.

19. 
Under  these  circumstances,  there  is  an  inconsistency  between 
Primero’s  asserted  entitlement  to  returns  derived  from  exploiting  the 
Product  X  intangibles  and  its  failure  to  bear  the  costs  associated  with  the 
risks  supporting  that  assertion.  A  transfer  pricing  adjustment  would  be 
appropriate  to  remedy  the  inconsistency.  In  determining  the  appropriate 
adjustment, it would be necessary to determine the true transaction between 
the parties by applying the provisions of Section D.1 of Chapter I. In doing 
so,  it  would  be  appropriate  to  consider  the  risks  assumed  by  each  of  the 
parties  on  the  basis  of  the  course  of  conduct  followed  by  the  parties  over 
the  term  of  the  agreement,  the  control  over  risk  exercised  by  Primero  and 
Company S, and other relevant facts. If it is determined that the true nature 
of the relationship between the parties is that of a limited risk distribution 
arrangement,  then  the  most  appropriate  adjustment  would  likely  take  the 
form  of  an  allocation  of  the  recall  and  product  liability  related  costs  from 
Company S to Primero. Alternatively, although unlikely, if it is determined 
on the basis of all the re