ts in two or 

more jurisdictions.

Multinational enterprise (MNE)

A company that is part of an MNE group.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

24 – GLOSSARy

Mutual agreement procedure

A  means  through  which  tax  administrations  consult  to  resolve  disputes 
regarding the application of double tax conventions. This procedure, described 
and authorised by Article 25 of the OECD Model Tax Convention, can be used 
to eliminate double taxation that could arise from a transfer pricing adjustment.

Net profit indicator

The ratio of net profit to an appropriate base (e.g. costs, sales, assets). The 
transactional  net  margin  method  relies  on  a  comparison  of  an  appropriate 
net  profit  indicator  for  the  controlled  transaction  with  the  same  net  profit 
indicator in comparable uncontrolled transactions.

“On call” services

Services provided by a parent company or a group service centre, which 

are available at any time for members of an MNE group.

Primary adjustment

An adjustment that a tax administration in a first jurisdiction makes to a 
company’s taxable profits as a result of applying the arm’s length principle to 
transactions involving an associated enterprise in a second tax jurisdiction.

Profit potential

The  expected  future  profits.  In  some  cases  it  may  encompass  losses. 
The  notion  of  “profit  potential”  is  often  used  for  valuation  purposes,  in  the 
determination of an arm’s length compensation for a transfer of intangibles or of 
an ongoing concern, or in the determination of an arm’s length indemnification 
for the termination or substantial renegotiation of existing arrangements, once 
it is found that such compensation or indemnification would have taken place 
between independent parties in comparable circumstances.

Profit split method

A  transactional  profit  split  method  that  identifies  the  relevant  profits 
to  be  split  for  the  associated  enterprises  from  a  controlled  transaction  (or 
controlled transactions that it is appropriate to aggregate under the principles 
of Chapter III) and then splits those profits between the associated enterprises 
on an economically valid basis that approximates the division of profits that 
would have been agreed at arm’s length. 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

GLOSSARy – 25

Resale price margin

A  margin  representing  the  amount  out  of  which  a  reseller  would  seek 
to  cover  its  selling  and  other  operating  expenses  and,  in  the  light  of  the 
functions  performed  (taking  into  account  assets  used  and  risks  assumed), 
make an appropriate profit.

Resale price method

A transfer pricing method based on the price at which a product that has 
been  purchased  from  an  associated  enterprise  is  resold  to  an  independent 
enterprise. The resale price is reduced by the resale price margin. What is left 
after subtracting the resale price margin can be regarded, after adjustment for 
other costs associated with the purchase of the product (e.g. custom duties), 
as  an  arm’s  length  price  of  the  original  transfer  of  property  between  the 
associated enterprises.

Residual analysis

An  analysis  used  in  the  profit  split  method  which  divides  the  relevant 
profits from the controlled transactions under examination into two categories. 
In the first category are profits attributable to contributions which can be reliably 
benchmarked: typically less complex contributions for which reliable comparables 
can  be  found.  Ordinarily  this  initial  remuneration  would  be  determined  by 
applying one of the traditional transaction methods or a transactional net margin 
method  to  identify  the  remuneration  of  comparable  transactions  between 
independent enterprises. Thus, it would generally not account for the return that 
would be generated by a second category of contributions which may be unique 
and valuable, and/or are attributable to a high level of integration or the shared 
assumption  of  economically  significant  risks.  Typically,  the  allocation  of  any 
residual profit  (or loss) remaining after allowing  for the profits  attributable to 
the first category of contributions would be based on an analysis of the relative 
value of the second category of contributions by the parties, supplemented where 
possible by external market data that indicate how independent enterprises would 
have divided profits in similar circumstances.

Secondary adjustment

An adjustment that arises from imposing tax on a secondary transaction.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

26 – GLOSSARy

Secondary transaction

A constructive transaction that some jurisdictions will assert under their 
domestic legislation after having proposed a primary adjustment in order to 
make the actual allocation of profits consistent with the primary adjustment. 
Secondary  transactions  may  take  the  form  of  constructive  dividends, 
c