e transferred or used without separate compensation, even though 
such use or transfer would give rise to compensation in transactions between 
independent enterprises. If too broad a definition is applied, either taxpayers 
or governments may argue that the use or transfer of an item in transactions 

1. 

The  assumption  of  risks  refers  to  the  outcome  of  the  determination  of  which 
associated  enterprise  assumes  a  specific  risk  under  the  guidance  provided  in 
Section D.1.2.1 of Chapter I, taking into account control over risk and financial 
capacity  to  assume  the  risk.  Contractual  assumption  of  risk  refers  to  the 
allocation of risk in contracts between the parties.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 247

between associated enterprises should require compensation in circumstances 
where  no  such  compensation  would  be  provided  in  transactions  between 
independent enterprises.

6.6. 
In these Guidelines, therefore, the word “intangible” is intended to 
address something which is not a physical asset or a financial asset,2 which 
is capable of being owned or controlled for use in commercial activities, and 
whose use or transfer would be compensated had it occurred in a transaction 
between  independent  parties  in  comparable  circumstances.  Rather  than 
focusing on accounting or legal definitions, the thrust of a transfer pricing 
analysis in a case involving intangibles should be the determination of the 
conditions  that  would  be  agreed  upon  between  independent  parties  for  a 
comparable transaction.

6.7. 
Intangibles that are important to consider for transfer pricing purposes 
are not always recognised as intangible assets for accounting purposes. For 
example,  costs  associated  with  developing  intangibles  internally  through 
expenditures such as research and development and advertising are sometimes 
expensed rather than capitalised for accounting purposes and the intangibles 
resulting  from  such  expenditures  therefore  are  not  always  reflected  on 
the  balance  sheet.  Such  intangibles  may  nevertheless  be  used  to  generate 
significant economic value and may need to be considered for transfer pricing 
purposes.  Furthermore,  the  enhancement  to  value  that  may  arise  from  the 
complementary nature of a collection of intangibles when exploited together is 
not always reflected on the balance sheet. Accordingly, whether an item should 
be considered to be an intangible for transfer pricing purposes under Article 9 
of the OECD Model Tax Convention can be informed by its characterisation 
for accounting purposes, but will not be determined by such characterisation 
only. Furthermore, the determination that an item should be regarded as an 
intangible for transfer pricing purposes does not determine or follow from its 
characterisation for general tax purposes, as, for example, an expense or an 
amortisable asset.

6.8. 
The  availability  and  extent  of  legal,  contractual,  or  other  forms  of 
protection  may  affect  the  value  of  an  item  and  the  returns  that  should  be 
attributed to it. The existence of such protection is not, however, a necessary 
condition for an item to be characterised as an intangible for transfer pricing 
purposes. Similarly, while some intangibles may be identified separately and 
transferred on a segregated basis, other intangibles may be transferred only 

2. 

As  used  in  this  paragraph,  a  financial  asset  is  any  asset  that  is  cash,  an  equity 
instrument, a contractual right or obligation to receive cash or another financial 
asset or to exchange financial assets or liabilities, or a derivative. Examples include 
bonds,  bank  deposits,  stocks,  shares,  forward  contracts,  futures  contracts  and 
swaps.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

248 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

in combination with other business assets. Therefore, separate transferability 
is not a necessary condition for an item to be characterised as an intangible 
for transfer pricing purposes.

6.9. 
It is important to distinguish intangibles from market conditions or local 
market circumstances. Features of a local market, such as the level of disposable 
income  of  households  in  that  market  or  the  size  or  relative  competitiveness 
of  the  market  are  not  capable  of  being  owned  or  controlled.  While  in  some 
circumstances they may affect the determination of an arm’s length price for 
a  particular  transaction  and  should  be  taken  into  account  in  a  comparability 
analysis, they are not intangibles for the purposes of Chapter VI. See Section D.6 
of Chapter I.

6.10.  The identification of an item as an intangible is separate and distinct 
from the process for determining the price for the use or transfer of the item 
under the facts and circumstances of a given case. Depending on the industry 
sector and other facts specific to