ant 
services and transfer pricing policies for allocating services costs 
and determining prices to be paid for intra-group services;
-  A  description  of  the  main  geographic  markets  for  the  group’s 
products and services that are referred to in the second bullet point 
above;

-  A  brief  written  functional  analysis  describing  the  principal 
contributions to value creation by individual entities within the 
group,  i.e.  key  functions  performed,  important  risks  assumed, 
and important assets used;

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
544 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER V: TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION – MASTER FILE

-  A description of important business restructuring transactions, 
acquisitions and divestitures occurring during the fiscal year.

MNE group’s intangibles (as defined in Chapter VI of these Guidelines)

•  A  general  description  of  the  MNE  group’s  overall  strategy  for  the 
development,  ownership  and  exploitation  of  intangibles,  including 
location of principal R&D facilities and location of R&D management.
•  A list of intangibles or groups of intangibles of the MNE group that 
are important for transfer pricing purposes and which entities legally 
own them.

•  A list of important agreements among identified associated enterprises 
related to intangibles, including cost contribution arrangements, principal 
research service agreements and licence agreements.

•  A general description of the group’s transfer pricing policies related 

to R&D and intangibles.

•  A general description of any important transfers of interests in intangibles 
among associated enterprises during the fiscal year concerned, including 
the entities, jurisdictions, and compensation involved.

MNE group’s intercompany financial activities

•  A general description of how the MNE group is financed, including 

important financing arrangements with unrelated lenders.

•  The identification of any members of the MNE group that provide a 
central  financing  function  for  the  group,  including  the  jurisdiction 
under whose laws the entity is organised and the place of effective 
management of such entities.

•  A general description of the MNE group’s general transfer pricing 
policies  related  to  financing  arrangements  between  associated 
enterprises.

MNE group’s financial and tax positions

•  The  MNE  group’s  annual  consolidated  financial  statement  for  the 
fiscal year concerned if otherwise prepared for financial reporting, 
regulatory, internal management, tax or other purposes.

•  A list and brief description of the MNE group’s existing unilateral 
advance pricing agreements (APAs) and other tax rulings relating to 
the allocation of income among jurisdictions.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER V: TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION – LOCAL FILE – 545

Annex II to Chapter V 

Transfer pricing documentation – Local file

The following information should be included in the local file:

Local entity

•  A description of the management structure of the local entity, a local 
organisation chart, and a description of the individuals to whom local 
management reports and the jurisdiction(s) in which such individuals 
maintain their principal offices.

•  A detailed description of the business and business strategy pursued 
by the local entity including an indication whether the local entity has 
been involved in or affected by business restructurings or intangibles 
transfers in the present or immediately past year and an explanation 
of those aspects of such transactions affecting the local entity.

•  Key competitors.

Controlled transactions

For each material category of controlled transactions in which the entity 

is involved, provide the following information:

•  A description of the material controlled transactions (e.g. procurement 
of manufacturing services, purchase of goods, provision of services, 
loans, financial and performance guarantees, licences of intangibles, 
etc.) and the context in which such transactions take place.

•  The amount of intra-group payments and receipts for each category 
of  controlled  transactions  involving  the  local  entity  (i.e.  payments 
and  receipts  for  products,  services,  royalties,  interest,  etc.)  broken 
down by tax jurisdiction of the foreign payor or recipient.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
546 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER V: TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION – LOCAL FILE

•  An identification of associated enterprises involved in each category 

of controlled transactions, and the relationship amongst them.

•  Copies  of  all  material  intercompany  agreements  concluded  by  the 

local entity.

•  A  detailed  comparability  and  functional  analysis  of  the  taxpayer 
and relevant associated enterprises with respect to each documented 
category of controlled transactions, including any changes compared 
to prior years.1

•  An indication of the most appropriate