ation’s access 
authorization and data transmission policies extend to data received from an exchange of information partner 
under a treaty or TIEA or other exchange agreement. Are the policies publicly available? If yes, please provide the 
reference. If not, please provide a summary.

2.6 Identification and Authentication

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Authenticating the identifying users and devices that require access to information systems

What policies and procedures does your tax administration maintain for each information system connected to 
confidential data? Are the policies and procedures publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, 
please provide a summary.

What policies and procedures govern the authentication of authorized tax administration users by systems 
connected to confidential data? Are the policies and procedures publicly available? If so, please provide a 
reference. If not, please provide a summary.

2.7 Audit and Accountability

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Traceable electronic actions within systems
•  System audit procedures: monitoring, analyzing, investigating, and reporting of unlawful/

unauthorized use

What policies and procedures does your tax administration maintain to ensure system audits take place that will 
detect unauthorized access? Are the policies publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please 
provide a summary.

2.8 Maintenance

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Periodic and timely maintenance of systems
•  Controls over: tools, procedures, and mechanisms for system maintenance and personnel 

use

What policies govern effective periodic system maintenance by your tax administration? Are these policies 
publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.
What procedures govern the resolution of system flaws identified by your tax administration? Are these 
procedures publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

2.9 System and Communications Protection

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Procedures to monitor, control, and protect communications to and from information 

systems

What policies and procedures does your tax administration maintain for the electronic transmission and receipt 
of confidential data. Please describe the security and encryption requirements addressed in these policies. Are 
these policies publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

56 – ANNEx Iv TO ChAPTER v. COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

2.10 System and Information Integrity

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Procedures to identify, report, and correct information system flaws in a timely manner
•  Protection against malicious code and monitoring system security alerts

What procedures does your tax administration maintain to identify, report, and correct information system 
flaws in a timely manner? Please describe how these procedures provide for the protection of systems against 
malicious codes causing harm to data integrity. Are these procedures publicly available? If so, please provide a 
reference. If not, please provide a summary.

2.11 Security Assessments

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Processes used to test, validate, and authorize the security controls for protecting data, 

correcting deficiencies, and reducing vulnerabilities

What policies does your tax administration maintain and regularly update for reviewing the processes used 
to test, validate, and authorize a security control plan? Is the policy publicly available? If so, please provide a 
reference. If not, please provide a summary.

2.12 Contingency Planning

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Plans for emergency response, backup operations, and post-disaster recovery of 

information systems

What contingency plans and procedures does your tax administration maintain to reduce the impact of improper 
data disclosure or unrecoverable loss of data? Are the plans and procedures publicly available? If so, please 
provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

2.13 Risk Assessment

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Potential risk of unauthorized access to taxpayer information
•  Risk and magnitude of harm from unauthorized use, disclosure, or disruption of the 

taxpayer information systems

•  Procedures to update risk assessment methodologies

Does your tax administration conduct risk assessments to identify risks and the potential impact of unauthorized 
access, use, and disclosure of information, or destruction of information systems? What procedures does your 
tax administration maintain to update risk assessment methodologies? Are these risk assessments and policies 
publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

2.14 Systems and Services Acquisition

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Methods and processes to ensure third-