delines related to the content and 
process of a comparability analysis to a transaction involving intangibles, a 
transfer pricing analysis must consider the options realistically available to 
each of the parties to the transaction.

6.112.  In  considering  the  options  realistically  available  to  the  parties,  the 
perspectives of each of the parties to the transaction must be considered. A 
comparability analysis focusing only on one side of a transaction generally 
does  not  provide  a  sufficient  basis  for  evaluating  a  transaction  involving 
intangibles  (including  in  those  situations  for  which  a  one-sided  transfer 
pricing method is ultimately determined).

6.113.  While it is important to consider the perspectives of both parties to 
the transaction in conducting a comparability analysis, the specific business 
circumstances of one of the parties should not be used to dictate an outcome 
contrary to the realistically available options of the other party. For example, 
a transferor would not be expected to accept a price for the transfer of either 
all  or  part  of  its  rights  in  an  intangible  that  is  less  advantageous  to  the 
transferor than its other realistically available options (including making no 
transfer at all), merely because a particular associated enterprise transferee 
lacks  the  resources  to  effectively  exploit  the  transferred  rights  in  the 
intangible. Similarly, a transferee should not be expected to accept a price for 
a transfer of rights in one or more intangibles that would make it impossible 
for the transferee to anticipate earning a profit using the acquired rights in 
the intangible in its business. Such an outcome would be less favourable to 
the  transferee  than  its  realistically  available  option  of  not  engaging  in  the 
transfer at all.

6.114. 
It  will  often  be  the  case  that  a  price  for  a  transaction  involving 
intangibles can be identified that is consistent with the realistically available 
options of each of the parties. The existence of such prices is consistent with 
the  assumption  that  MNE  groups  seek  to  optimise  resource  allocations.  If 
situations  arise  in  which  the  minimum  price  acceptable  to  the  transferor, 
based  on  its  realistically  available  options,  exceeds  the  maximum  price 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

282 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

acceptable  to  the  transferee,  based  on  its  realistically  available  options, 
it  may  be  necessary  to  consider  whether  the  actual  transaction  should  be 
disregarded  under  the  criterion  for  non-recognition  set  out  in  Section  D.2 
of Chapter I, or whether the conditions of the transaction should otherwise 
be adjusted. Similarly, if situations arise in which there are assertions that 
either the current use of an intangible, or a proposed realistically available 
option (i.e. an alternative use of the intangible), does not optimise resource 
allocations,  it  may  be  necessary  to  consider  whether  such  assertions  are 
consistent with the true facts and circumstances of the case. This discussion 
highlights the importance of taking all relevant facts and circumstances into 
account in accurately delineating the actual transaction involving intangibles.

D.2.  Supplemental guidance regarding transfers of intangibles or 

rights in intangibles

6.115.  This  section  provides  supplemental  guidance  regarding  specific 
issues arising in connection with the transfer between associated enterprises 
of intangibles or rights in intangibles. Such transactions may include sales 
of  intangibles  as  well  as  transactions  that  are  economically  equivalent  to 
sales. Such transactions could also include a licence of rights in one or more 
intangibles or a similar transaction. This section is not intended to provide 
comprehensive  guidance  with  regard  to  the  transfer  pricing  treatment  of 
such  intangibles  transfers.  Rather,  it  supplements  the  otherwise  applicable 
provisions of Chapters I-III, and the guidance in Sections A, B, C, and D.1 of 
this chapter, in the context of transfers of intangibles or rights in intangibles, 
by  providing  guidance  with  regard  to  certain  specific  topics  commonly 
arising in connection with such transfers.

D.2.1. Comparability of intangibles or rights in intangibles

6.116. 
In applying the provisions of Chapters I-III to transactions involving 
the transfer of intangibles or rights in intangibles, it should be borne in mind 
that  intangibles  often  have  unique  characteristics,  and  as  a  result  have  the 
potential for generating returns and creating future benefits that could differ 
widely.  In  conducting  a  comparability  analysis  with  regard  to  a  transfer 
of  intangibles,  it  is  therefore  essential  to  consider  the  unique  features  of 
the  intangibles.  This  is  particularly  important  where  the  CUP  meth