 
reference points for identifying and analysing controlled transactions relating 
to the intangible and for determining the appropriate remuneration to members 
of a controlled group with respect to those transactions. Identification of legal 
ownership,  combined  with  the  identification  and  compensation  of  relevant 
functions  performed,  assets  used,  and  risks  assumed  by  all  contributing 
members,  provides  the  analytical  framework  for  identifying  arm’s  length 
prices and other conditions for transactions involving intangibles. As with any 
other type of transaction, the analysis must take into account all of the relevant 
facts and circumstances present in a particular case and price determinations 
must  reflect  the  realistic  alternatives  of  the  relevant  group  members.  The 
principles of this paragraph are illustrated by Examples 1 to 6 in Annex I to 
Chapter VI.
6.44.  Because the actual outcomes and manner in which risks associated with 
the development or acquisition of an intangible will play out over time are not 
known with certainty at the time members of the MNE group make decisions 
regarding intangibles, it is important to distinguish between (a) anticipated (or 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

260 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

ex ante) remuneration, which refers to the future income expected to be derived 
by a member of the MNE group at the time of a transaction; and (b) actual (or ex 
post) remuneration, which refers to the income actually earned by a member of 
the group through the exploitation of the intangible.

6.45.  The terms of the compensation that must be paid to members of the 
MNE group that contribute to the development, enhancement, maintenance, 
protection and exploitation of intangibles is generally determined on an ex 
ante basis. That is, it is determined at the time transactions are entered into 
and  before  risks  associated  with  the  intangible  play  out.  The  form  of  such 
compensation may be fixed or contingent. The actual (ex post) profit or loss 
of the business after compensating other members of the MNE group may 
differ from these anticipated profits depending on how the risks associated 
with  the  intangible  or  the  other  relevant  risks  related  to  the  transaction  or 
arrangement  actually  play  out.  The  accurately  delineated  transaction,  as 
determined under Section D.1 of Chapter I, will determine which associated 
entity assumes such risks and accordingly will bear the consequences (costs 
or additional returns) when the risks materialise in a different manner to what 
was anticipated (see Section B.2.4).
6.46.  An  important  question  is  how  to  determine  the  appropriate  arm’s 
length  remuneration  to  members  of  a  group  for  their  functions,  assets, 
and  risks  within  the  framework  established  by  the  taxpayer’s  contractual 
arrangements,  the  legal  ownership  of  intangibles,  and  the  conduct  of  the 
parties. Section B.2 discusses the application of the arm’s length principle to 
situations involving intangibles. It focuses on the functions, assets and risks 
related to the intangibles. Unless stated otherwise, references to arm’s length 
returns and arm’s length remuneration in Section B.2 refer to anticipated (ex 
ante) returns and remuneration.

B.2. Functions, assets, and risks related to intangibles

6.47.  As stated above, a determination that a particular group member is 
the  legal  owner  of  intangibles  does  not,  in  and  of  itself,  necessarily  imply 
that the legal owner is entitled to any income generated by the business after 
compensating other members of the MNE group for their contributions in the 
form of functions performed, assets used, and risks assumed.

In identifying arm’s length prices for transactions among associated 
6.48. 
enterprises, the contributions of members of the group related to the creation 
of  intangible  value  should  be  considered  and  appropriately  rewarded.  The 
arm’s  length  principle  and  the  principles  of  Chapters  I-III  require  that  all 
members  of  the  group  receive  appropriate  compensation  for  any  functions 
they perform, assets they use, and risks they assume in connection with the 
development,  enhancement,  maintenance,  protection,  and  exploitation  of 
intangibles. It is therefore necessary to determine, by means of a functional 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 261

analysis, which member(s) perform and exercise control over development, 
enhancement,  maintenance,  protection,  and  exploitation  functions,  which 
member(s) provide funding and other assets, and which member(s) assume 
the  various  risks  associated  with  the  intangible.  Of  course,  in  each  of 
these  areas,  this  may  or  may  not  be  the  legal  owner  of  the  intangible.  As 
noted  in  paragraph  6.133,  it  is  also  important  in  determining  arm’s  length 