intention  of  the  Action  13 
minimum standard. 

In addition, to provide clarity as soon as possible to MNE Groups, jurisdictions will work towards bringing 
their QCAA into effect as soon as possible so as to minimise this transitional issue. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
38 |   

Non-compliance with the confidentiality, appropriate use and consistency 
conditions and Systemic Failure (February 2018) 

3.1 When it is found that a jurisdiction does not in practice meet the conditions of 
confidentiality, appropriate use or consistency, are other jurisdictions allowed to 
suspend exchanges of the CbC report? If yes, would such a suspension be treated as a 
Systemic Failure?  

As specified in Paragraph 56 of the Action 13 Report, confidentiality, consistency and appropriate use are 
necessary  conditions  underpinning  the  obtaining  and  use  of  CbC  reports.  The  consequences  of  non-
compliance with these conditions will depend on the terms of the QCAA between the jurisdictions. Under 
Section 5, Paragraph 1 of the Multilateral CAA and the Model Bilateral CAAs contained in the Action 13 
Report, all information exchanged is subject to the confidentiality rules and other safeguards provided in 
the relevant Convention  or TIEA, including provisions limiting the use  of information exchanged. Under 
Section 5, Paragraph 2 of these agreements, the use of information is further limited to assessing high-
level  transfer  pricing,  base  erosion  and  profit  shifting  risks  and,  where  appropriate,  for  economic  and 
statistical analysis. 

Without  prejudice  to  other  rights  of  suspension  which  may  exist,  under  Section  8,  Paragraph  5  of  the 
Multilateral  CAA  and  Section  8,  Paragraph  2  of  the  Model  Bilateral  CAAs,  a  Competent  Authority  may 
temporarily suspend the exchange of information by giving notice in writing if it is determined that there is 
or  there  has  been  significant  non-compliance  by  the  other  Competent  Authority.  Significant  non-
compliance is defined in these agreements to include non-compliance with Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Section 
5 as well as the corresponding provisions of the relevant International Agreement (which correspond to 
the conditions for confidentiality and appropriate use) as well as failure by the other Competent Authority 
to provide timely or adequate information as required under the agreement (which is linked to compliance 
with the consistency condition). As set out in the OECD "Guidance on the Appropriate Use of Information 
Contained  in  CbC  Reports"4,  this  determination  may,  for  example,  be  based  on  the  outcomes  of  a 
jurisdiction's peer review evaluation of appropriate use.  

Once a Competent Authority has determined there is or has been significant non-compliance by the other 
Competent Authority, it is encouraged to take into account factors including the frequency and severity of 
non-compliance and whether other remedies are available, in deciding whether to temporarily suspend the 
exchange of information (for example, if inappropriate adjustments have been conceded in MAP or other 
Competent Authority proceedings, as required under Section 5, Paragraph 2). 

Under the Multilateral CAA and the Model Bilateral CAAs, before any such suspension of exchange, the 
first Competent Authority must consult with the other Competent Authority. 

Systemic  Failure,  as  defined  in  Paragraph  13  of  Article  1  of  the  Model  Legislation,  arises  where  a 
jurisdiction suspends automatic exchange of information for reasons that are other than in accordance with 
the terms of the relevant QCAA or otherwise persistently fails to exchange CbC Reports in its possession. 
Because a temporary suspension of exchange of information under Section 8 is in accordance with the 
terms of the relevant QCAA, this does not constitute Systemic Failure. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
  | 39 

Local filing (November 2019; updated December 2019)  

4.1 Can a jurisdiction apply local filing where the Ultimate Parent Entity of an MNE is not 
required to file a CbC report in circumstances where a CbC report would be required in 
the local jurisdiction?  

The  BEPS  Action  13  report  is  clear  that  local  filing  is  accepted  where  one  of  the  following  conditions 
applies:  

• 
• 

• 

the UPE of the MNE is not obligated to file a CbC report in its jurisdiction of tax residence 

the jurisdiction in which the UPE is resident for tax purposes has a current international agreement 
to  which  the  local  jurisdiction  is  a  party  but  does  not  have  a  qualifying  competent  authority 
agreement in effect to which the local jurisdiction is a party by the deadline for filing a CbC report 
for the reporting fiscal year 

there  has  been  a  systemic  failure  of  the  jurisdictio