ith its actual functions performed, assets used 
and risks assumed after the restructuring.

9.122.  For  example,  an  MNE  manufactures  and  distributes  products  the 
value of which is not determined by the technical features of the products, 
but  rather  by  consumer  recognition  of  the  brand.7  The  MNE  wants  to 
differentiate itself from its competitors through the development of brands 
with  great  value,  by  implementing  a  carefully  developed  and  expensive 
marketing  strategy.  The  trademarks,  trade  names  and  other  intangibles 
represented  by  the  brand  are  owned  by  Company  A  in  Country  A  and 
Company A assumes the risks associated with the ownership, development 
and  exploitation  of  those  intangibles.  The  development,  maintenance  and 
execution of a worldwide marketing strategy are the main value drivers of 
the  MNE,  performed  by  125  employees  at  Company  A’s  head  office.  The 
value  of  the  intangibles  results  in  a  high  consumer  price  for  the  products. 
Company  A’s  head  office  also  provides  central  services  for  the  group 
affiliates  (e.g.  human  resource  management,  legal,  tax).  The  products  are 
manufactured by affiliates under contract manufacturing arrangements with 
Company  A.  They  are  distributed  by  affiliates  who  purchase  them  from 
Company A. The profits derived by Company A after having allocated an 
arm’s length remuneration to the contract manufacturers and distributors are 

6. 

7. 

See  paragraphs  9.27-9.9.31  for  a  discussion  of  options  realistically  available; 
see also paragraphs 9.102-9.106 for a discussion of possible factual differences 
between  situations  that  result  from  a  restructuring  and  situations  that  were 
structured as such from the beginning and of how such differences may affect 
the options realistically available to the parties in negotiating the terms of the 
new arrangement and therefore the conditions of the restructuring and/or of the 
post-restructuring arrangements.
For an explanation of the term “brand”, please see paragraph 6.23.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 399

considered  to  be  the  remuneration  for  the  intangibles,  marketing  activities 
and central services of Company A.

9.123.  Then a restructuring takes place. Legal ownership of the trademarks, 
trade names and other intangibles represented by the brand is transferred by 
Company A to a newly set up affiliate, Company Z in Country Z in exchange 
for a lump sum payment. After the restructuring, Company A is remunerated 
on a cost plus basis for the services it performs for Company Z and the rest 
of the group. The remuneration of the affiliated contract manufacturers and 
distributors remains the same. The remaining profits after remuneration of 
the contract manufacturers, distributors, and Company A head office services 
are paid to Company Z. The accurate delineation of the transactions before 
and after the restructuring determines that:

•  Company Z is managed by a local trust company. It does not have 
people (employees or directors) who have the capability to perform, 
and who in fact do not perform control functions in relation to the 
risks associated with the ownership or the strategic development of 
the trademarks, trade names or other intangibles represented by the 
brand. It also does not have the financial capacity to assume these 
risks.

•  High  ranking  officials  from  Company  A’s  head  office  fly  to 
Country  Z  once  a  year  to  formally  validate  the  strategic  decisions 
necessary to operate the company. These decisions are prepared by 
Company  A’s  head  office  in  Country  A  before  the  meetings  take 
place  in  Country  Z.  The  MNE  considers  that  these  activities  are 
service activities performed by Company A’s head office for Z. These 
strategic decision-making activities are remunerated at cost plus in 
the  same  way  as  the  central  services  are  remunerated  (e.g.  human 
resource management, legal, tax).

•  The  development,  maintenance  and  execution  of  the  worldwide 
marketing  strategy  are  still  performed  by  the  same  employees  of 
Company A’s head office and remunerated on a cost plus basis.

9.124.  Based  on  these  findings,  it  can  be  concluded  that  Company  A 
continues to perform the same functions and assume the same risks as before 
the  restructuring  took  place.  In  particular,  Company  A  continues  to  have 
the capability and actually performs control functions in relation to the risk 
of exploitation of the intangibles. It also carries on the functions related to 
the  development,  maintenance  and  execution  of  the  worldwide  marketing 
strategy. Company Z has no capability to perform control functions, and does 
not  in  fact  perform  the  control  functions  needed  to  assume  the  intangible 
related risks. Accordingly, the accurate