parability adjustments. Only when the intangibles 
used by the tested party are unique and valuable intangibles will the need 
arise to make comparability adjustments or to adopt a transfer pricing method 
less dependent on comparable uncontrolled transactions. Where intangibles 
used  by  the  tested  party  are  not  unique  and  valuable  intangibles,  prices 
paid  or  received,  or  margins  or  returns  earned  by  parties  to  comparable 
uncontrolled transactions may provide a reliable basis for determining arm’s 
length conditions.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

310 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

6.207.  Where  the  need  to  make  comparability  adjustments  arises  because 
of  differences  in  the  intangibles  used  by  the  tested  party  in  a  controlled 
transaction  and  the  intangibles  used  by  a  party  to  a  potentially  comparable 
uncontrolled  transaction,  difficult  factual  questions  can  arise  in  quantifying 
reliable comparability adjustments. These issues require thorough consideration 
of the relevant facts and circumstances and of the available data regarding the 
impact of the intangibles on prices and profits. Where the impact on price of 
a difference in the nature of the intangibles used is clearly material, but not 
subject to accurate estimation, it may be necessary to utilise a different transfer 
pricing method that is less dependent on identification of reliable comparables.

6.208.  It  should  also  be  recognised  that  comparability  adjustments  for 
factors other than differences in the nature of the intangibles used may be 
required  in  matters  involving  the  use  of  intangibles  in  connection  with  a 
controlled sale of goods or services. In particular, comparability adjustments 
may  be  required  for  matters  such  as  differences  in  markets,  locational 
advantages,  business  strategies,  assembled  workforce,  corporate  synergies 
and other similar factors. While such factors may not be intangibles as that 
term is described in Section A.1 of this chapter, they can nevertheless have 
important  effects  on  arm’s  length  prices  in  matters  involving  the  use  of 
intangibles.

D.5.2.2. Situations where reliable comparables do not exist

6.209.  In  some  circumstances  where  reliable  uncontrolled  transactions 
cannot  be  identified,  transactional  profit  split  methods  may  be  utilised  to 
determine an arm’s length allocation of profits for the sale of goods or the 
provision  of  services  involving  the  use  of  intangibles.  One  circumstance 
in which the use of transactional profit split methods may be appropriate is 
where both parties to the transaction make unique and valuable contributions 
to the transaction.

6.210.  Section C in Part III of Chapter II contains guidance to be considered 
in applying transactional profit split methods. That guidance is fully applicable 
to matters involving the use of intangibles in connection with the sale of goods 
or the provision of services in controlled transactions.

6.211. 
In  applying  a  profit  split  method  in  a  case  involving  the  use  of 
intangibles,  care  should  be  taken  to  identify  the  intangibles  in  question,  to 
evaluate the manner in which those intangibles contribute to the creation of value, 
and to evaluate other income producing functions performed, risks assumed and 
assets used. Vague assertions of the existence and use of unspecified intangibles 
will not support a reliable application of a profit split method.

6.212.  In appropriate circumstances, transfer pricing methods or valuation 
techniques  not  dependent  on  the  identification  of  reliable  comparable 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 311

uncontrolled  transactions  may  also  be  utilised  to  determine  arm’s  length 
conditions for the sale of goods or the provision of services where intangibles 
are used in connection with the transaction. The alternative selected should 
reflect the nature of the goods or services provided and the contribution of 
intangibles and other relevant factors to the creation of value.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES – 313

Chapter VII 

Special considerations for intra-group services

A. Introduction

This chapter discusses issues that arise in determining for transfer 
7.1. 
pricing  purposes  whether  services  have  been  provided  by  one  member  of 
an  MNE  group  to  other  members  of  that  group  and,  if  so,  in  establishing 
arm’s  length  pricing  for  those  intra-group  services.  The  chapter  does  not 
address  except  incidentally  whether  services  have  been  provided  in  a  cost 
contribution arrangement, nor, in such a case, the appropriate arm’s length 
pricing. Cost contribution arrangements are the subject of Chapter VIII.

7.2. 
Nearly every MNE group must arrange for a wide scope of services 
to  be  availab