t  the  risk  has  not  been  assumed  by  the  captive  insurance  or  that  another 
MNE is exercising these control functions. In this latter case, the return derived 
from the investment of the premiums would be allocated to the member(s) of 
the MNE group that are assuming the risk associated with the underwriting in 
accordance with the guidance in Chapter I.

7. 

Report on the Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments, approved by the 
Committee on Fiscal Affairs on 22 June 2010 and by the Council for publication 
on 22 July 2010.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 447

E.2.3. Outsourcing the underwriting function

10.213.  In  many  cases,  outsourcing  certain  aspects  of  the  underwriting 
function  would  be  inconsistent  with  the  minimum  regulatory  standards 
required to operate an insurance business. However, in those situations where 
the  captive  insurance  is  permitted  to  outsource  some  of  the  activities  that 
constitute the underwriting function (for instance, a captive insurance may 
be  allowed  to  outsource  the  acceptance  of  insurance  risk  to  an  associated 
enterprise that acts as a broker and receives an arm’s length remuneration), 
special consideration of the retention by the captive insurance of the control 
functions would be required in order to conclude whether the risk is allocated 
to the captive insurance. A captive insurance that outsources all aspects of the 
underwriting process without performing control functions would not assume 
the insurance risk under Chapter I analysis.

E.2.4. Reinsurance captives – Fronting

10.214.  A  reinsurance  captive  is  a  particular  type  of  captive  insurance 
which  does  not  issue  policies  directly  but  operates  as  a  reinsurance  under 
an  arrangement  known  as  “fronting”.  Captive  insurance  may  not  be  able 
to  underwrite  insurance  policies  in  the  same  way  as  traditional  insurance 
companies. For instance, certain insurance risks must be placed with regulated 
insurers  as  a  legal  requirement.  This  may  lead  to  the  use  of  a  fronting 
arrangement  in  which  the  first  contract  of  insurance  is  between  the  insured 
member of an MNE group and an unrelated insurer (the fronter); the fronter 
then  reinsures  with  the  captive  insurance  most  or  all  of  the  risk  of  the  first 
contract.  The  fronter  may  remain  responsible  for  claims  handling  and  other 
administrative functions or these functions may be handled by a member of the 
same MNE group as the captive. The fronter retains a commission to cover its 
costs and to compensate for any portion of the insured risk which it retains. The 
majority of the fronter’s premium passes to the captive insurance as part of the 
reinsurance contract.

10.215.  In accurately delineating fronting arrangements, the same principles 
stated  for  captive  insurance  apply.  It  is  important  to  note,  however,  that 
fronting arrangements represent particularly complex controlled transactions 
to price as they involve the participation of a third party that is indifferent to 
the levels of the price of the insurance and reinsurance transactions. The key 
issues which are likely to arise in fronting cases are whether the transactions 
involved amount to genuine insurance or reinsurance and, if there is genuine 
insurance,  whether  the  premiums  payable  (ultimately  to  the  reinsurance 
captive) are on arm’s length terms.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

448 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

E.3.  Determining the arm’s length price of captive insurance and 

reinsurance

10.216.  The  following  paragraphs  outline  different  approaches  to  pricing 
intra-group transactions involving captive insurance and reinsurance. Each 
case  must  be  considered  on  its  own  facts  and  circumstances  and  in  each 
case accurate delineation of the actual transactions in accordance with the 
prin ciples  of  Chapter  I  will  be  needed  before  any  attempt  to  decide  on  an 
approach to pricing a transaction. As in any other transfer pricing situation, 
the  most  appropriate  method  should  be  selected  under  the  guidance  of 
Chapter II.

E.3.1. Pricing of premiums

10.217.  Comparable  uncontrolled  prices  may  be  available  from  comparable 
arrangements between unrelated parties. These may be internal comparables if 
the captive insurance has suitably similar business with unrelated customers, 
or there may be external comparables.

10.218.  The  application  of  the  CUP  method  to  a  transaction  involving  a 
captive  insurance  may  encounter  practical  difficulties  to  determine  the 
need  for  and  quantification  of  comparability  adjustments.  In  particular, 
account should be taken of potential differences between the controlled and 
uncontrolled transactions that may affect the reliability of the comparables. 
Those di