the  requirements  of  the  master  file 
can be fully satisfied by specific cross-references to other existing documents, such cross-
references, together with copies of the relevant documents, should be deemed to satisfy the 
relevant requirement. For purposes of producing the master file, information is considered 
important if its omission would affect the reliability of the transfer pricing outcomes.

19.  The information required in the master file provides a “blueprint” of the MNE group 
and  contains  relevant  information  that  can  be  grouped  in  five  categories:  a)  the  MNE 
group’s organisational structure; b) a description of the MNE’s business or businesses; c) 
the MNE’s intangibles; d) the MNE’s intercompany financial activities; and (e) the MNE’s 
financial and tax positions.

20.  Taxpayers should present the information in the master file for the MNE as a whole. 
however, organisation of the information presented by line of business is permitted where 
well justified by the facts, e.g. where the structure of the MNE group is such that some 
significant business lines operate largely independently or are recently acquired. where 
line of business presentation is used, care should be taken to assure that centralised group 
functions and transactions between business lines are properly described in the master file. 
Even where line of business presentation is selected, the entire master file consisting of all 
business lines should be available to each country in order to assure that an appropriate 
overview of the MNE group’s global business is provided.

21.  Annex I to Chapter v of these Guidelines sets out the information to be included in 
the master file.

C.2. Local file

22. 
In  contrast  to  the  master  file,  which  provides  a  high-level  overview  as  described 
in  paragraph  18,  the  local  file  provides  more  detailed  information  relating  to  specific 
intercompany  transactions.  The  information  required  in  the  local  file  supplements  the 
master file and helps to meet the objective of assuring that the taxpayer has complied with 
the  arm’s  length  principle  in  its  material  transfer  pricing  positions  affecting  a  specific 
jurisdiction. The local file focuses on information relevant to the transfer pricing analysis 
related  to  transactions  taking  place  between  a  local  country  affiliate  and  associated 
enterprises  in  different  countries  and  which  are  material  in  the  context  of  the  local 
country’s  tax  system.  Such  information  would  include  relevant  financial  information 
regarding  those  specific  transactions,  a  comparability  analysis,  and  the  selection  and 
application of the most appropriate transfer pricing method. where a requirement of the 
local file can be fully satisfied by a specific cross-reference to information contained in the 
master file, such a cross-reference should suffice.

23.  Annex II to Chapter v of these Guidelines sets out the items of information to be 
included in the local file.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

16 –  ChAPTER v OF ThE TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES ON DOCUMENTATION

C.3. Country-by-Country Report

24.  The Country-by-Country Report requires aggregate tax jurisdiction-wide information 
relating to the global allocation of the income, the taxes paid, and certain indicators of the 
location of economic activity among tax jurisdictions in which the MNE group operates. 
The  report  also  requires  a  listing  of  all  the  Constituent  Entities  for  which  financial 
information  is  reported,  including  the  tax  jurisdiction  of  incorporation,  where  different 
from the tax jurisdiction of residence, as well as the nature of the main business activities 
carried out by that Constituent Entity.

25.  The Country-by-Country Report will be helpful for high-level transfer pricing risk 
assessment purposes. It may also be used by tax administrations in evaluating other BEPS 
related  risks  and  where  appropriate  for  economic  and  statistical  analysis.  however,  the 
information  in  the  Country-by-Country  Report  should  not  be  used  as  a  substitute  for  a 
detailed  transfer  pricing  analysis  of  individual  transactions  and  prices  based  on  a  full 
functional analysis and a full comparability analysis. The information in the Country-by-
Country  Report  on  its  own  does  not  constitute  conclusive  evidence  that  transfer  prices 
are or are not appropriate. It should not be used by tax administrations to propose transfer 
pricing adjustments based on a global formulary apportionment of income.

26.  Annex  III  to  Chapter  v  of  these  Guidelines  contains  a  model  template  for  the 
Country-by-Country Report together with its accompanying instructions.

D. Compliance issues

D.1. Contemporaneous documentation

27.  Each  taxpayer  should  endeavour  to  determine  transfer  prices  for  t