 
the  arm’s  length  short-term  borrowing  rate  for  a  certain  corporation  on 
intra-group  borrowings  will  remain  at  6%  during  the  entire  coming  three 
years. It would be more plausible to predict that the rate will be LIBOR plus 
a  fixed  percentage.  The  prediction  would  become  even  more  reliable  if  an 

6. 

Additional guidance for conducting Advance Pricing Arrangements under the 
Mutual Agreement Procedure is found in Annex II to Chapter IV.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

214 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

appropriate critical assumption were added regarding the company’s credit 
rating (e.g. the addition to LIBOR will change if the credit rating changes).

4.137.  As another example, it would not be appropriate to specify a profit 
split  formula  between  associated  enterprises  if  it  is  expected  that  the 
allocation  of  functions  between  the  enterprises  will  be  unstable.  It  would, 
however,  be  possible  to  prescribe  a  profit  split  formula  if  the  role  of  each 
enterprise were articulated in critical assumptions. In certain cases, it might 
even be possible to make a reasonable prediction on the appropriateness of an 
actual profit split ratio if enough assumptions were provided.

4.138.  In  deciding  how  specific  an  APA  can  be  in  a  particular  case,  tax 
administrations  should  recognise  that  predictions  of  absolute  future  profit 
experience  seems  least  plausible.  It  may  be  possible  to  use  profit  ratios  of 
independent enterprises as comparables, but these also are often volatile and 
hard  to  predict.  Use  of  appropriate  critical  assumptions  and  use  of  ranges 
may enhance the reliability of predictions. Historical data in the industry in 
question can also be a guide.

4.139. 
In  sum,  the  reliability  of  a  prediction  depends  on  the  facts  and 
circumstances of each actual case. Taxpayers and tax administrations need 
to pay close attention to the reliability of a prediction when considering the 
scope  of  an  APA.  Unreliable  predictions  should  not  be  included  in  APAs. 
The appropriateness of a method and its application can usually be predicted, 
and the relevant critical assumptions made, with more reliability than future 
results (price or profit level).

4.140.  Some jurisdictions allow for unilateral arrangements where the tax 
administration and the taxpayer in its jurisdiction establish an arrangement 
without  the  involvement  of  other  interested  tax  administrations.  However, 
a  unilateral  APA  may  affect  the  tax  liability  of  associated  enterprises  in 
other tax jurisdictions. Where unilateral APAs are permitted, the competent 
authorities  of  other  interested  jurisdictions  should  be  informed  about  the 
procedure as early as possible to determine whether they are willing and able 
to consider a bilateral arrangement under the mutual agreement procedure. 
In  any  event,  jurisdictions  should  not  include  in  any  unilateral  APA  they 
may conclude with a taxpayer a requirement that the taxpayer waive access 
to the mutual agreement procedure if a transfer pricing dispute arises, and 
if another jurisdiction raises a transfer pricing adjustment with respect to a 
trans action or issue covered by the unilateral APA, the first jurisdiction is 
encouraged  to  consider  the  appropriateness  of  a  corresponding  adjustment 
and not to view the unilateral APA as an irreversible settlement.

4.141.  Because of concerns over double taxation, most jurisdictions prefer 
bilateral  or  multilateral  APAs  (i.e.  an  arrangement  in  which  two  or  more 
jurisdictions concur), and indeed some jurisdictions will not grant a unilateral 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 215

APA (i.e. an arrangement between the taxpayer and one tax administration) 
to  taxpayers  in  their  jurisdiction.  The  bilateral  (or  multilateral)  approach 
is  far  more  likely  to  ensure  that  the  arrangements  will  reduce  the  risk  of 
double  taxation,  will  be  equitable  to  all  tax  administrations  and  taxpayers 
involved,  and  will  provide  greater  certainty  to  the  taxpayers  concerned.  It 
is also the case in some jurisdictions that domestic provisions do not permit 
the  tax  administrations  to  enter  into  binding  agreements  directly  with  the 
taxpayers, so that APAs can be concluded with the competent authority of a 
treaty partner only under the mutual agreement procedure. For purposes of 
the discussion in this section, an APA is not intended to include a unilateral 
arrangement except where specific reference to a unilateral APA is made.
4.142.  Tax  administrations  may  find  APAs  particularly  useful  in  profit 
allocation or income attribution issues arising in the context of global securities 
and  commodity  trading  operations,  and  also  in  handling  multilateral  