ction 
should ideally be established by reference to the cost plus mark-up that the 
same  supplier  earns  in  comparable  uncontrolled  transactions  (“internal 
comparable”). In addition, the cost plus mark-up that would have been earned 
in comparable transactions by an independent enterprise may serve as a guide 
(“external comparable”).

2.47. 
Following the principles in Chapter I, an uncontrolled transaction is 
comparable  to  a  controlled  transaction  (i.e.  it  is  a  comparable  uncontrolled 
transaction)  for  purposes  of  the  cost  plus  method  if  one  of  two  conditions 
is  met:  a)  none  of  the  differences  (if  any)  between  the  transactions  being 
compared  or  between  the  enterprises  undertaking  those  transactions 
materially affect the cost plus mark up in the open market; or, b) reasonably 
accurate adjustments can be made to eliminate the material effects of such 
differences. In determining whether a transaction is a comparable uncontrolled 
transaction for the purposes of the cost plus method, the same principles apply 
as described in paragraphs 2.29-2.34 for the resale price method. Thus, fewer 
adjustments may be necessary to account for product differences under the 
cost  plus  method  than  the  CUP  method,  and  it  may  be  appropriate  to  give 
more weight to other factors of comparability described in Chapter I, some of 
which may have a more significant effect on the cost plus mark-up than they 
do  on  price.  As  under  the  resale  price  method  (see  paragraph  2.34),  where 
there are differences that materially affect the cost plus mark ups earned in 
the controlled and uncontrolled transactions (for example in the nature of the 
functions performed by the parties to the transactions), reasonably accurate 
adjustments should be made to account for such differences. The extent and 
reliability of those adjustments will affect the relative reliability of the analysis 
under the cost plus method in particular cases.

2.48.  For example, assume that Company A manufactures and sells toasters 
to a distributor that is an associated enterprise, that Company B manufactures 
and sells irons to a distributor that is an independent enterprise, and that the 
profit margins on the manufacture of basic toasters and irons are generally 
the same in the small household appliance industry. (The use of the cost plus 
method  here  presumes  that  there  are  no  highly  similar  independent  toaster 
manufacturers).  If  the  cost  plus  method  were  being  applied,  the  mark  ups 
being compared in the controlled and uncontrolled transactions would be the 
difference between the selling price by the manufacturer to the distributor and 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

108 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

the costs of manufacturing the product, divided by the costs of manufacturing 
the  product.  However,  Company  A  may  be  much  more  efficient  in  its 
manufacturing processes than Company B thereby enabling it to have lower 
costs. As a result, even if Company A were making irons instead of toasters 
and  charging  the  same  price  as  Company  B  is  charging  for  irons  (i.e.  no 
special condition were to exist), it would be appropriate for Company A’s profit 
level to be higher than that of Company B. Thus, unless it is possible to adjust 
for the effect of this difference on the profit, the application of the cost plus 
method would not be wholly reliable in this context.

2.49.  The cost plus method presents some difficulties in proper application, 
particularly in the determination of costs. Although it is true that an enterprise 
must cover its costs over a period of time to remain in business, those costs 
may  not  be  the  determinant  of  the  appropriate  profit  in  a  specific  case  for 
any one year. While in many cases companies are driven by competition to 
scale down prices by reference to the cost of creating the relevant goods or 
providing the relevant service, there are other circumstances where there is 
no  discernible  link  between  the  level  of  costs  incurred  and  a  market  price 
(e.g. where a valuable discovery has been made and the owner has incurred 
only small research costs in making it).

2.50. 
In  addition,  when  applying  the  cost  plus  method  one  should  pay 
attention  to  apply  a  comparable  mark  up  to  a  comparable  cost  basis.  For 
instance,  if  the  supplier  to  which  reference  is  made  in  applying  the  cost 
plus  method  in  carrying  out  its  activities  employs  leased  business  assets, 
the  cost  basis  might  not  be  comparable  without  adjustment  if  the  supplier 
in the controlled transaction owns its business assets. The cost plus method 
relies  upon  a  comparison  of  the  mark  up  on  costs  achieved  in  a  controlled 
transaction  and  the  mark  up  on  costs  achieved  in  one  or  more  comparable 
uncontrolled transactions. Therefore, 