ings are held in a location distinct 
from  the  place  where  head  office  of  the  company  is  located  or  such 
location  is  unconnected  with  the  place  where  the  predominant  activity  of 
the company is being carried out.  

If  a  board  has  de  facto  delegated  the  authority  to  make  the  key 
management  and  commercial  decisions  for  the  company  to  the  senior 
management  or  any  other  person  including  a  shareholder,  promoter, 
strategic  or  legal  or  financial  advisor  etc.  and  does  nothing  more  than 
routinely  ratifying  the  decisions  that  have  been  made,  the  company’s 
place  of  effective  management  will  ordinarily  be  the  place  where  these 
senior managers or the other person make those decisions. 

Page 4 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) A company’s board may delegate some or all of its authority to one or   more 
committees such as an executive committee consisting of key members of senior 
management.  In  these  situations,  the  location  where  the  members  of  the 
executive  committee  are  based  and  where  that  committee  develops  and 
formulates  the  key  strategies  and  policies  for  mere  formal  approval  by  the  full 
board  will  often  be  considered  to  be  the  company’s  place  of  effective 
management.   

The  delegation  of  authority  may  be  either  de  jure  (by  means  of  a  formal 
resolution or Shareholder Agreement) or de facto (based upon the actual conduct 
of the board and the executive committee). 

(c)  The location of a company’s head office will be a very important factor in the 
determination of the company’s place of effective management because it often 
represents  the  place  where  key  company  decisions  are  made.  The  following 
points need to be considered for determining the location of the head office of the 
company:-  

If the company’s senior management and their support staff are based in a 
single location and that location is held out to the public as the company’s 
principal place of business or headquarters then that location is the place 
where head office is located.  
If  the  company  is  more  decentralized  (for  example  where  various 
members of senior management may operate, from time to time, at offices 
located in the various countries) then the company’s head office would be 
the location where these senior managers,- 

are primarily or predominantly based; or 
normally return to following travel to other locations; or 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii)  meet  when formulating  or deciding  key  strategies  and policies 

for the company as a whole.  

  Members of the senior management may operate from different locations 
on  a  more  or  less  permanent  basis  and  the  members  may  participate  in 
various meetings via telephone or video conferencing rather than by being 
physically present at meetings in a particular location. In such situation the 
head office would normally be the location, if any, where the highest level 
of  management  (for  example,  the  Managing  Director  and  Financial 
Director) and their direct support staff are located.  
In  situations  where  the  senior  management  is  so  decentralised  that  it  is 
not  possible  to  determine  the  company’s  head  office  with  a  reasonable 
degree of certainty, the location of a company’s head office would not be 
of  much  relevance  in  determining  that  company’s  place  of  effective 
management.  

Page 5 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) The use of modern technology impacts the place of effective management in 
many  ways.  It  is  no  longer  necessary  for  the  persons  taking  decision  to  be 
physically  present  at  a  particular  location.  Therefore  physical  location  of  board 
meeting or executive committee meeting or meeting of senior management may 
not be where the key decisions are in substance being made. In such cases the 
place where the directors or the persons taking the decisions or majority of them 
usually reside may also be a relevant factor. 

(e)  In  case  of  circular  resolution  or  round  robin  voting  the  factors  like,  the 
frequency  with  which  it  is used,  the  type of decisions made  in  that  manner and 
where  the  parties  involved  in  those  decisions  are  located  etc.  are  to  be 
considered.  It cannot be said that proposer of decision alone would be relevant 
but  based  on  past  practices  and  general  conduct;  it  would  be  required  to 
determine  the  person  who  has  the  authority  and  who  exercises  the  authority  to 
take decisions.  The place of location of such person would be more important  

(f)  The  decisions  made  by  shareholder  on  matters  which  are  reserved  for 
shareholder decision under the company laws are not relevant for determination 
of a company’s place of effective management.  Such decisions may include sale 
of  all  or  substantially  all  of  the  company’s  assets,  the  dissolution,  liquidation  or 
deregistra