les.  The  active  pharmaceutical  ingredient 
may  be  protected  by  one  or  more  patents.  The  product  will  also  have  been 
through  a  testing  process  and  a  government  regulatory  authority  may  have 
issued an approval to market the product in a given geographic market and 
for specific approved indications based on that testing. The product may be 
marketed under a particular trademark. In combination these intangibles may 
be extremely valuable. In isolation, one or more of them may have much less 
value. For example, the trademark without the patent and regulatory marketing 
approval may have limited value since the product could not be sold without 
the marketing approval and generic competitors could not be excluded from 
the market without the patent. Similarly, the value of the patent may be much 
greater once regulatory marketing approval has been obtained than would be 
the case in the absence of the marketing approval. The interactions between 
each  of  these  classes  of  intangibles,  as  well  as  which  parties  performed 
functions,  bore  the  risks  and  incurred  the  costs  associated  with  securing 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 277

the intangibles, are therefore very important in performing a transfer pricing 
analysis with regard to a transfer of the intangibles. It is important to consider 
the relative contribution to value creation where different associated enterprises 
hold rights in the intangibles used.

6.95.  A second and related issue involves the importance of ensuring that 
all intangibles transferred in a particular transaction have been identified. It 
may be the case, for example, that intangibles are so intertwined that it is not 
possible, as a substantive matter, to transfer one without transferring the other. 
Indeed, it will often be the case that a transfer of one intangible will necessarily 
imply the transfer of other intangibles. In such cases it is important to identify 
all of the intangibles made available to the transferee as a consequence of an 
intangibles transfer, applying the principles of Section D.1 of Chapter I. For 
example, the transfer of rights to use a trademark under a licence agreement 
will  usually  also  imply  the  licensing  of  the  reputational  value,  sometimes 
referred to as goodwill, associated with that trademark, where it is the licensor 
who has built up such goodwill. Any licence fee required should consider both 
the trademark and the associated reputational value. Example 20 in Annex I to 
Chapter VI illustrates the principles of this paragraph.

It is important to identify situations where taxpayers or tax administrations 
6.96. 
may  seek  to  artificially  separate  intangibles  that,  as  a  matter  of  substance, 
independent parties would not separate in comparable circumstances. For example, 
attempts to artificially separate trademarks or trade names from the goodwill or 
reputational value that is factually associated with the trademark or trade name 
should be identified and critically analysed. Example 21 in Annex I to Chapter VI 
illustrates the principles of this paragraph.

6.97. 
It  should  be  recognised  that  the  process  of  identifying  all  of  the 
intangibles transferred in a particular transaction is an exercise of identifying, 
by reference to written agreements and the actual conduct of the parties, the 
actual  transactions  that  have  been  undertaken,  applying  the  principles  of 
Section D.1 of Chapter I.

C.1.3.  Transfers of intangibles or rights in intangibles in combination 

with other business transactions

6.98. 
In some situations intangibles or rights in intangibles may be transferred 
in combination with tangible business assets, or in combination with services. 
It is important in such a situation to determine whether intangibles have in fact 
been  transferred  in  connection  with  the  transaction.  It  is  also  important  that 
all of the intangibles transferred in connection with a particular transaction be 
identified and taken into account in the transfer pricing analysis. Examples 23 to 
25 in Annex I to Chapter VI illustrate the principles of this paragraph.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

278 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

6.99. 
In some situations it may be both possible and appropriate to separate 
transactions  in  tangible  goods  or  services  from  transfers  of  intangibles  or 
rights in intangibles for purposes of conducting a transfer pricing analysis. 
In these situations, the price of a package contract should be disaggregated 
in  order  to  confirm  that  each  element  of  the  transaction  is  consistent  with 
the  arm’s  length  principle.  In  other  situations  transactions  may  be  so 
closely related that it will be difficult to segregate tangible goods or service 
transactions from transfers of intangibles or rights in intangibles. Reliability 
of available comparables w