comparables used. See paragraph 3.36 for a discussion of 
information available to tax administrations that is not disclosed to taxpayers. 
General guidance on documentation requirements is found at Chapter V of these 
Guidelines. See also Annex II to Chapter IV “Guidelines for conducting Advance 
Pricing Arrangements under the Mutual Agreement Procedure (MAP APAs)”.

A.1.  Typical process

3.4. 
Below is a description of a typical process that can be followed when 
performing a comparability analysis. This process is considered an accepted 
good practice but it is not a compulsory one, and any other search process 
leading  to  the  identification  of  reliable  comparables  may  be  acceptable  as 
reliability of the outcome is more important than process (i.e. going through 
the process does not provide any guarantee that the outcome will be arm’s 
length, and not going through the process does not imply that the outcome 
will not be arm’s length).

Step 1:  Determination of years to be covered.

Step 2:  Broad-based analysis of the taxpayer’s circumstances.

Step 3:  Understanding the controlled transaction(s) under examination, 
based  in  particular  on  a  functional  analysis,  in  order  to 
choose the tested party (where needed), the most appropriate 
transfer  pricing  method  to  the  circumstances  of  the  case, 
the  financial  indicator  that  will  be  tested  (in  the  case  of  a 
transactional profit method), and to identify the significant 
comparability factors that should be taken into account.

Step 4:  Review of existing internal comparables, if any.

Step 5:  Determination  of  available  sources  of  information  on 
external comparables where such external comparables are 
needed taking into account their relative reliability.

Step 6:  Selection  of  the  most  appropriate  transfer  pricing  method 
and, depending on the method, determination of the relevant 
financial  indicator  (e.g.  determination  of  the  relevant  net 
profit indicator in case of a transactional net margin method).

Step 7:  Identification of potential comparables: determining the key 
characteristics to be met by any uncontrolled transaction in 
order to be regarded as potentially comparable, based on the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS – 151

relevant factors identified in Step 3 and in accordance with 
the comparability factors set out in Section D.1 of Chapter I.

Step 8:  Determination  of  and  making  comparability  adjustments 

where appropriate.

Step 9:  Interpretation and use of data collected, determination of the 

arm’s length remuneration.

3.5. 
In practice, this process is not a linear one. Steps 5 to 7 in particular 
might  need  to  be  carried  out  repeatedly  until  a  satisfactory  conclusion  is 
reached,  i.e.  the  most  appropriate  method  is  selected,  especially  because 
the examination of available sources of information may in some instances 
influence the selection of the transfer pricing method. For instance, in cases 
where  it  is  not  possible  to  find  information  on  comparable  transactions 
(step 7) and/or to make reasonably accurate adjustments (step 8), taxpayers 
might have to select another transfer pricing method and repeat the process 
starting from step 4.

See paragraph 3.82 for a discussion of a process to establish, monitor 

3.6. 
and review transfer prices.

A.2.  Broad-based analysis of the taxpayer’s circumstances

3.7. 
The “broad-based analysis” is an essential step in the comparability 
analysis.  It  can  be  defined  as  an  analysis  of  the  industry,  competition, 
economic and regulatory factors and other elements that affect the taxpayer 
and its environment, but not yet within the context of looking at the specific 
transactions  in  question.  This  step  helps  understand  the  conditions  in 
the  taxpayer’s  controlled  transaction  as  well  as  those  in  the  uncontrolled 
transactions to be compared, in particular the economic circumstances of the 
transaction (see paragraphs 1.130-1.133).

A.3.  Review of the controlled transaction and choice of the tested party

3.8. 
The review of the controlled transaction(s) under examination aims at 
identifying the relevant factors that will influence the selection of the tested 
party  (where  needed),  the  selection  and  application  of  the  most  appropriate 
transfer pricing method to the circumstances of the case, the financial indicator 
that will be tested (in the case of a transactional profit method), the selection 
of  comparables  and  where  relevant  the  determination  of  comparability 
adjustments.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

152 – CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS

A.3.1. Evaluation of a taxpayer’s separate and combined transactions

Ideally,  in  order  to  arrive  at  the  most  precise  approximation  of 
3.9. 
arm’s  length  conditions,  the  arm’s  length  principle  should  be  applied 