 to  evaluate  some  issues  in 
isolation,  for  example  where  the  transactions  covered  by  the  proposal  are 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

526 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS

highly interrelated with transactions not covered by the proposal, or where 
there is a need to analyse transfer pricing issues in a wider context because 
intentional set offs are involved (see paragraphs 3.13-3.17 of the Guidelines).

37. 
A  MAP  APA  may  also  cover  issues  other  than  the  transfer  pricing 
methodology, provided that these other issues are sufficiently clearly connected 
to the underlying transfer pricing issues so as to make it worthwhile attempting 
to  resolve  them  in  advance  and  provided  that  the  other  issues  come  within 
the terms of the mutual agreement article in the relevant treaty. That will be 
something to be decided between the affected parties for each individual case.

C.3.3. Content of a MAP APA proposal

38. 
The content of the proposal and the extent of the necessary supporting 
information and documentation will depend on the facts and circumstances 
of  each  case  and  the  requirements  of  the  individual  participating  tax 
administrations.  It  is  therefore  not  considered  practicable  to  list  or  define 
exactly what should be provided. The guiding principle, however, should be 
to provide the information and documentation necessary to explain the facts 
relevant to the proposed methodology and to demonstrate its application in 
accordance with the appropriate Article of the relevant treaty. The proposal 
should  therefore  be  consistent  with  any  general  guidance  given  by  the 
Commentary  of  the  OECD  Model  Tax  Convention  on  the  corresponding 
Articles,  together  with  the  guidance  on  the  application  of  the  arm’s  length 
principle  of  Article  9  given  by  the  Guidelines  in  cases  involving  transfer 
pricing between associated enterprises.

39. 
In  terms  of  the  supporting  information  and  documentation  to  be 
included, the guidance in Chapter IV (paragraphs 4.165-4.168) and Chapter V 
of the Guidelines on documentation requirements should be borne in mind. 
However, because of the prospective nature of the agreement sought, different 
types  of  information  may  need  to  be  supplied  than  in  mutual  agreement 
cases, which only relate to transactions already undertaken. As a guide, the 
following information may be of general relevance for MAP APAs, although 
it should be stressed that the list below is not intended to be exhaustive or 
prescriptive in nature:

a)  The  transactions,  products,  businesses  or  arrangements  that 
will  be  covered  by  the  proposal;  (including,  if  applicable,  a 
brief  explanation  of  why  not  all  of  the  transactions,  products, 
businesses  or  arrangements  of  the  taxpayer(s)  involved  in  the 
request have been included);

b)  The enterprises and permanent establishments involved in these 

transactions or arrangements;

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS – 527

c)  The other jurisdiction or jurisdictions which have been requested 

to participate;

d)  Information  regarding  the  world-wide  organisational  structure, 
history, financial statement data, products, functions and assets 
(tangible and intangible) of any associated enterprises involved;

e)  A description of the proposed transfer pricing methodology and 
details of information and analyses supporting that methodology, 
e.g. identification of comparable prices or margins and expected 
range of results etc.;

f)  The assumptions underpinning the proposal and a discussion of 
the effect of changes in those assumptions or other events, such 
as unexpected results, which might affect the continuing validity 
of the proposal;

g)  The accounting periods or tax years to be covered;

h)  General  description  of  market  conditions  (e.g.  industry  trends 

and the competitive environment);

i)  A discussion of any pertinent ancillary tax issues raised by the 

proposed methodology;

j)  A  discussion  of,  and  demonstration  of  compliance  with,  any 
pertinent domestic law, tax treaty provisions and OECD guidelines 
that relate to the proposal; and

k)  Any other information which may have a bearing on the current 
or  proposed  transfer  pricing  methodology  and  the  underlying 
data for any party to the request.

The rest of this section discusses some of the most important items from 

the above list in more detail.

C.3.4. Comparable pricing information

40. 
The taxpayer should include a discussion of the availability and use of 
comparable pricing information. This would include a description of how the 
search for comparables was carried out (including search criteria employed), 
what  data  relating  to  uncontrolled  transactions  was  obtained  and  how  such 
data was accepted or rejected