e ability of a company to face, respond to and 
mitigate  externally  driven  risks  is  likely  to  be  a  necessary  condition  for  a 
business to remain competitive. Importantly, guidance on the possible range 
of risk should assist in identifying material risks with specificity. Risks which 
are  vaguely  described  or  undifferentiated  will  not  serve  the  purposes  of  a 
transfer pricing analysis seeking to delineate the actual transaction and the 
actual allocation of risk between the parties.

a)  Strategic  risks  or  marketplace  risks.  These  are  largely  external 
risks  caused  by  the  economic  environment,  political  and 
regulatory events, competition, technological advance, or social 
and environmental changes. The assessment of such uncertainties 
may  define  the  products  and  markets  the  company  decides  to 
target,  and  the  capabilities  it  requires,  including  investment  in 
intangibles  and  tangible  assets,  as  well  as  in  the  talent  of  its 
human capital. There is considerable potential downside, but the 
upside  is  also  considerable  if  the  company  identifies  correctly 
the  impact  of  external  risks,  and  differentiates  its  products  and 
secures and continues to protect competitive advantage. Examples 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 55

of such risks may include marketplace trends, new geographical 
markets, and concentration of development investment.

b)  Infrastructure or operational risks. These are likely to include the 
uncertainties  associated  with  the  company’s  business  execution 
and  may  include  the  effectiveness  of  processes  and  operations. 
The impact of such risks is highly dependent on the nature of the 
activities and the uncertainties the company chooses to assume. 
In some circumstances breakdowns can have a crippling effect on 
the company’s operations or reputation and threaten its existence; 
whereas  successful  management  of  such  risks  can  enhance 
reputation. In other circumstances, the failure to bring a product 
to market on time, to meet demand, to meet specifications, or to 
produce to high standards, can affect competitive and reputational 
position, and give advantage to companies which bring competing 
products to market more quickly, better exploit periods of market 
protection  provided  by,  for  example,  patents,  better  manage 
supply chain risks and quality control. Some infrastructure risks 
are  externally  driven  and  may  involve  transport  links,  political 
and  social  situations,  laws  and  regulations,  whereas  others  are 
internally  driven  and  may  involve  capability  and  availability 
of  assets,  employee  capability,  process  design  and  execution, 
outsourcing arrangements, and IT systems.

c)  Financial  risks.  All  risks  are  likely  to  affect  a  company’s 
financial  performance,  but  there  are  specific  financial  risks 
related  to  the  company’s  ability  to  manage  liquidity  and  cash 
flow, financial capacity, and creditworthiness. The uncertainty 
can  be  externally  driven,  for  example  by  economic  shock  or 
credit crisis, but can also be internally driven through controls, 
investment  decisions,  credit  terms,  and  through  outcomes  of 
infrastructure or operational risks.

d)  Transactional  risks.  These  are  likely  to  include  pricing  and 
payment  terms  in  a  commercial  transaction  for  the  supply  of 
goods, property, or services.

e)  Hazard  risks.  These  are  likely  to  include  adverse  external 
events  that  may  cause  damages  or  losses,  including  accidents 
and natural disasters. Such risks can often be mitigated through 
insurance,  but  insurance  may  not  cover  all  the  potential  loss, 
particularly where there are significant impacts on operations or 
reputation.

1.73.  Determining  the  economic  significance  of  risk  and  how  risk  may 
affect the pricing of a transaction between associated enterprises is part of the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

56 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

broader functional analysis of how value is created by the MNE group, the 
activities that allow the MNE group to sustain profits, and the economically 
relevant characteristics of the transaction. The analysis of risk also helps to 
determine comparability under the guidance in Chapter III. Where potential 
comparables are identified, it is relevant to determine whether they include 
the same level of risks and management of risks. The economic significance 
of risk may be illustrated by the following two situations.

1.74. 
In  the  first  situation  the  MNE  group  distributes  heating  oil  to 
consumers. Analysis of the economically relevant characteristics establishes 
that  the  product  is  undifferentiated,  the  market  is  competitive,  the  market 
size is predictable, and players are price-takers. In such circumstance