 of Chapter VI of the Guidelines applies.

31. 
One way to implement the adjustment is to re-assess the price paid in 
year 0. However, the significant revision of the lump-sum payment highlights 
the risks posed by the high uncertainty in valuing the intangible and gives 
rise  to  consideration,  in  light  of  this  significant  uncertainty,  of  whether 
adjustments consistent with an alternative payment structure might be more 
consistent with what unrelated parties would have done (see paragraph 16 of 
this guidance and paragraph 6.183 of Chapter VI of the Guidelines).

32. 
Evidence of pricing arrangements for the transfer of intangibles in 
comparable circumstances to address high valuation uncertainty may point 
to appropriate alternatives to making the adjustment in year 0. For example, 
assume  that  in  the  pharmaceutical  sector  it  is  common  to  transfer  patent 
rights to independent parties through a combination of an initial lump sum 
payment  and  additional  contingent  payment  arrangements  based  on  the 
successful  completion  of  development  phases  or  regulatory  approvals  in  a 
particular market. In this case, assume that the first market approvals were 
obtained  in  year  3.  The  tax  administration  may,  therefore,  determine  that 
it is consistent with arm’s length practices in comparable circumstances to 
recover  the  underpayment  through  a  further  payment  in  year  3.  Note  that 
this paragraph is not intended to, and does not, imply that modification of the 
payment form can only occur when there is a common practice in the relevant 
business sector regarding the form of payment for the transfer of a particular 
type of intangible.

The  principles  illustrated  by  this  example  apply  irrespective  of 
33. 
whether the tax administration in fact carries out an audit for years 0-2 and 
then  a  second  audit  for  years  3-5,  or  whether  it  audits  only  for  years  3-5. 
In both scenarios, a revision to the original valuation is justified based on 
ex post evidence emerging in year 7, and, subject to any treaty or domestic 
law  limitations,  the  undervaluation  may  be  recovered  based  on  the  HTVI 
approach contained in Section D.4 of Chapter VI (see paragraph 6.192).

3. Dispute prevention and resolution in relation to the HTVI approach

34. 
The  purpose  of  this  guidance  is  to  improve  consistency  in  the 
application of the HTVI approach by jurisdictions, thus reducing the risk of 
economic double taxation. In addition to this guidance, there may be other 
tools at the disposal of taxpayers to avoid instances of double taxation and 
enhance tax certainty in HTVI transactions.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

642 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER VI: HARD-TO-VALUE INTANGIBLES

35. 
In  particular,  Chapter  IV  of  these  Guidelines  discusses  in  detail 
advance  pricing  arrangements  (APAs),  which  if  concluded  bilaterally  or 
multilaterally  between  treaty  partner  competent  authorities  provide  an 
increased level of certainty in the jurisdictions involved, lessen the likelihood 
of  double  taxation,  and  may  proactively  prevent  transfer  pricing  disputes. 
Recognising the role of APAs in preventing double taxation and providing 
certainty  to  taxpayers,  paragraph  6.193  of  these  Guidelines  prevents  the 
application of the HTVI approach when the transfer of the HTVI is covered 
by a bilateral or multilateral APA in effect for the period in questions between 
the jurisdictions of the transferee and the transferor.

In  this  regard,  the  Final  BEPS  Report  for  Action  14  “Making 
36. 
Dispute  Resolution  Mechanisms  More  Effective”  (BEPS  Report  on  Action 
14)  recommends  as  a  best  practice  the  implementation  of  bilateral  APAs, 
as  soon  as  a  jurisdiction  has  the  capacity  to  do  so  (Best  Practice  no.  4). 
Furthermore,  one  of  the  elements  of  the  BEPS  Report  on  Action  14  is  that 
jurisdictions with bilateral APA programmes provide for the rollback of APAs 
in appropriate cases, subject to the applicable time limits where the relevant 
facts and circumstances in the earlier tax years are the same and subject to the 
verification of these facts and circumstances on audit.

37. 
In  the  event  that  the  application  of  the  approach  to  HTVI  leads  to 
double  taxation,  the  guidance  in  paragraph  6.195  states  that  it  would  be 
important  to  permit  resolution  of  such  cases  through  access  to  the  mutual 
agreement procedure under the applicable treaty. Accordingly, this guidance 
should be read in conjunction with Article 25 and its Commentary and the 
commitment  made  in  the  Final  BEPS  Report  on  Action  14.  That  Report 
describes the minimum standard on dispute resolution to which the members 
of  the  Inclusive  Framework  on  BEPS  have  committed,  which  consists  of 
specific  measures  to  remove  obstacles  to  an  effective  and  