l  the  necessary  components,  know-how,  etc.  are  provided 
by  company  E.  The  purchase  of  the  assembled  product  is  guaranteed  by 
company E in case the television sets fail to meet a certain quality standard. 
After the quality check, the television sets are brought – at the expense and risk 
of company E – to distribution centres company E has in several countries. The 
function of company C can be described as a purely contract manufacturing 
function.  The  risks  company  C  could  bear  are  eventual  differences  in  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

112 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

agreed quality and quantity. The basis for applying the cost plus method will 
be formed by all the costs connected to the assembling activities.
2.61.  Company A of an MNE group agrees with company B of the same 
MNE group to carry out contract research for company B. All risks related 
to the research are assumed by company B. This company also owns all the 
intangibles developed through the research and therefore has also the profit 
chances  resulting  from  the  research.  This  is  a  typical  setup  for  applying  a 
cost plus method. All costs for the research, which the associated parties have 
agreed upon, have to be compensated. The additional cost plus may reflect 
how innovative and complex the research carried out is.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 113

Part III: Transactional profit methods

A. Introduction

2.62.  This Part provides a discussion of transactional profit methods that 
may be used to approximate arm’s length conditions where such methods are 
the  most  appropriate  to  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  see  paragraphs  2.1-
2.12.  Transactional  profit  methods  examine  the  profits  that  arise  from 
particular transactions among associated enterprises. The only profit methods 
that  satisfy  the  arm’s  length  principle  are  those  that  are  consistent  with 
Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax Convention and follow the requirement 
for a comparability analysis as described in these Guidelines. In particular, 
so-called “comparable profits methods” or “modified cost plus/resale price 
methods” are acceptable only to the extent that they are consistent with these 
Guidelines.

2.63.  A  transactional  profit  method  examines  the  profits  that  arise  from 
particular  controlled  transactions.  The  transactional  profit  methods  for 
purposes of these Guidelines are the transactional profit split method and the 
transactional net margin method. Profit arising from a controlled transaction 
can  be  a  relevant  indicator  of  whether  the  transaction  was  affected  by 
conditions that differ from those that would have been made by independent 
enterprises in otherwise comparable circumstances.

B. Transactional net margin method

B.1.  In general

2.64.  The transactional net margin method examines the net profit relative 
to an appropriate base (e.g. costs, sales, assets) that a taxpayer realises from 
a  controlled  transaction  (or  transactions  that  are  appropriate  to  aggregate 
under  the  principles  of  paragraphs  3.9-3.12).  Thus,  a  transactional  net 
margin  method  operates  in  a  manner  similar  to  the  cost  plus  and  resale 
price  methods.  This  similarity  means  that  in  order  to  be  applied  reliably, 
the transactional net margin method must be applied in a manner consistent 
with  the  manner  in  which  the  resale  price  or  cost  plus  method  is  applied. 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

114 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

This  means  in  particular  that  the  net  profit  indicator  of  the  taxpayer  from 
the  controlled  transaction  (or  transactions  that  are  appropriate  to  aggregate 
under the principles of paragraphs 3.9-3.12) should ideally be established by 
reference to the net profit indicator that the same taxpayer earns in comparable 
uncontrolled  transactions,  i.e.  by  reference  to  “internal  comparables”  (see 
paragraphs 3.27-3.28). Where this is not possible, the net margin that would 
have  been  earned  in  comparable  transactions  by  an  independent  enterprise 
(“external comparables”) may serve as a guide (see paragraphs 3.29-3.35). A 
functional analysis of the controlled and uncontrolled transactions is required 
to determine whether the transactions are comparable and what adjustments 
may be necessary to obtain reliable results. Further, the other requirements 
for  comparability,  and  in  particular  those  of  paragraphs  2.74-2.81,  must  be 
applied.

2.65.  A  transactional  net  margin  method  is  unlikely  to  be  reliable  if 
each  party  to  a  transaction  makes  unique  and  valuable  contributions,  see 
paragraph 2.4. In such a case, a transactional profit split method will generally 
be the most appropriate method, see paragraph 2.119. However, a one-sided 
metho