 as being comparable. The taxpayer should also 
include a presentation of comparable transactions along with adjustments to 
account for material differences, if any, between controlled and uncontrolled 
transactions. In cases where no comparables can be identified, the taxpayer 
should  demonstrate,  by  reference  to  relevant  market  and  financial  data 
(including  the  internal  data  of  the  taxpayer),  how  the  chosen  methodology 
accurately reflects the arm’s length principle.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

528 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS

C.3.5. Methodology

The  MAP  APA  proposal  should  provide  a  full  description  of  the 
41. 
chosen  methodology.  In  cases  involving  associated  enterprises,  the  chosen 
methodology  should  also  respect  the  guidance  found  in  the  Guidelines  on 
applying  the  arm’s  length  principle  of  Article  9  of  the  OECD  Model  Tax 
Convention.  It  is  stated  in  paragraph  2.11  of  the  Guidelines  that  “further, 
any  method  should  be  permitted  where  its  application  is  agreeable  to  the 
members  of  the  MNE  group  involved  with  the  transaction  or  transactions 
to which the methodology applies and also to the tax administrations in the 
jurisdictions of all those members.” That guidance on use of transfer pricing 
methods is particularly relevant in the context of a MAP APA, because of 
the opportunity to obtain advance agreement on the method to be used. The 
application  of  the  methodology  should  be  supported  by  data  which  can  be 
obtained  and  updated  over  the  period  of  the  MAP  APA  without  imposing 
too great a burden on the taxpayer, and which can be reviewed and verified 
effectively by the tax administrations.

42. 
The  taxpayer  should,  to  the  extent  possible,  provide  an  analysis  of 
the  effect  of  applying  the  chosen  methodology  or  methodologies  during 
the  proposed  period  of  the  agreement.  Such  an  analysis  necessarily  will 
have to be based on projected results and so details of the assumptions on 
which  those  projections  were  made  will  be  needed.  It  may  also  be  helpful 
to illustrate the effect of applying the APA methodology or methodologies 
to  the  periods  immediately  before  the  APA  period.  The  usefulness  of  this 
analysis, even as an illustration, will depend on the facts and circumstances 
surrounding the transactions in question being comparable to those applying 
to the prospective transactions contemplated under the proposal.

C.3.6. Critical assumptions

43. 
In entering into a MAP APA relating to the arm’s length pricing of 
controlled  transactions  that  have  not  yet  occurred,  it  is  necessary  to  make 
certain assumptions about the operational and economic conditions that will 
affect those transactions when they take place. The taxpayer should describe 
in the proposal the assumptions on which the ability of the methodology to 
accurately  reflect  the  arm’s  length  pricing  of  future  transactions  is  based. 
Additionally, the taxpayer should explain how the chosen methodology will 
satisfactorily cope with any changes in those assumptions. The assumptions 
are  defined  as  “critical”  if  the  actual  conditions  existing  at  the  time  the 
transactions occur could diverge from those that were assumed to exist, to 
the extent that the ability of the methodology reliably to reflect arm’s length 
pricing is undermined. One example might be a fundamental change to the 
market arising from new technology, government regulations, or widespread 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS – 529

loss of consumer acceptance. In such a case, the divergence may mean that 
the agreement would need to be revised or cancelled.

44. 
To increase the reliability of the MAP APA methodology, taxpayers 
and  tax  administrations  should  attempt  to  identify  critical  assumptions 
that  are,  where  possible,  based  on  observable,  reliable  and  independent 
data.  Such  assumptions  are  not  limited  to  items  within  the  control  of  the 
taxpayer. Any set of critical assumptions needs to be tailored to the individual 
circumstances of the taxpayer, the particular commercial environment, the 
methodology, and the type of transactions covered. They should not be drawn 
so tightly that certainty provided by the agreement is jeopardised, but should 
encompass as wide a range of variation in the underlying facts as the parties 
to the agreement feel comfortable with. In general, however, and by way of 
example only, critical assumptions might include:

a)  Assumptions  about  the  relevant  domestic  tax  law  and  treaty 

provisions.

b)  Assumptions  about  tariffs,  duties,  import  restrictions  and 

government regulations.

c)  Assumptions about economic conditions, market share, market 

conditions, end-selling price, and 