ay be 
interested  in  setting  a  low  price  for  the  transaction  for  customs  purposes 
so  that  the  customs  duty  imposed  will  be  low.  (There  could  be  similar 
considerations  arising  with  respect  to  value  added  taxes,  sales  taxes,  and 
excise taxes.) For tax purposes, however, a higher price paid for those same 
goods  would  increase  the  deductible  costs  in  the  importing  jurisdiction 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 81

(although  this  would  also  increase  the  sales  revenue  of  the  seller  in  the 
jurisdiction  of  export).  Co-operation  between  income  tax  and  customs 
administrations  within  a  jurisdiction  in  evaluating  transfer  prices  is 
becoming more common and this should help to reduce the number of cases 
where customs valuations are found unacceptable for tax purposes or vice 
versa.  Greater  co-operation  in  the  area  of  exchange  of  information  would 
be particularly useful, and should not be difficult to achieve in jurisdictions 
that already have integrated administrations for income taxes and customs 
duties. Jurisdictions that have separate administrations may wish to consider 
modifying the exchange of information rules so that the information can flow 
more easily between the different administrations.

D.6.  Location savings and other local market features

1.159.  Paragraphs  1.130,  1.132  and  6.120  indicate  that  features  of  the 
geographic market in which business operations occur can affect comparability 
and  arm’s  length  prices.  Difficult  issues  can  arise  in  evaluating  differences 
between  geographic  markets  and  in  determining  appropriate  comparability 
adjustments.  Such  issues  may  arise  in  connection  with  the  consideration  of 
cost savings attributable to operating in a particular market. Such savings are 
sometimes  referred  to  as  location  savings.  In  other  situations  comparability 
issues can arise in connection with the consideration of local market advantages 
or disadvantages that may not be directly related to location savings.

D.6.1. Location savings

1.160.  Paragraphs 9.126-9.131 discuss the treatment of location savings in 
the  context  of  a  business  restructuring.  The  principles  described  in  those 
paragraphs  apply  generally  to  all  situations  where  location  savings  are 
present, not just in the case of a business restructuring.

1.161.  Pursuant to the guidance in paragraphs 9.126 – 9.131, in determining 
how  location  savings  are  to  be  shared  between  two  or  more  associated 
enterprises, it is necessary to consider (i) whether location savings exist; (ii) the 
amount of any location savings; (iii) the extent to which location savings are 
either retained by a member or members of the MNE group or are passed on 
to independent customers or suppliers; and (iv) where location savings are not 
fully passed on to independent customers or suppliers, the manner in which 
independent enterprises operating under similar circumstances would allocate 
any retained net location savings.

1.162.  Where  the  functional  analysis  shows  that  location  savings  exist 
that  are  not  passed  on  to  customers  or  suppliers,  and  where  comparable 
entities  and  transactions  in  the  local  market  can  be  identified,  those  local 
market comparables will provide the most reliable indication regarding how 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

82 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

the net location savings should be allocated amongst two or more associated 
enterprises. Thus, where reliable local market comparables are available and 
can be used to identify arm’s length prices, specific comparability adjustments 
for location savings should not be required.

1.163.  When reliable local market comparables are not present, determinations 
regarding  the  existence  and  allocation  of  location  savings  among  members 
of  an  MNE  group,  and  any  comparability  adjustments  required  to  take  into 
account location savings, should be based on an analysis of all of the relevant 
facts and circumstances, including the functions performed, risks assumed, and 
assets used of the relevant associated enterprises, in the manner described in 
paragraphs 9.126-9.131.

D.6.2. Other local market features

1.164.  Features  of  the  local  market  in  which  business  operations  occur 
may  affect  the  arm’s  length  price  with  respect  to  transactions  between 
associated enterprises. While some such features may give rise to location 
savings, others may give rise to comparability concerns not directly related 
to  such  savings.  For  example,  the  comparability  and  functional  analysis 
conducted  in  connection  with  a  particular  matter  may  suggest  that  the 
relevant  characteristics  of  the  geographic  market  in  which  products  are 
manufactured  or  sold,  the  purc