an effort to balance tax administration 
information needs, concerns about inappropriate use of the information, and the compliance 
costs and burdens imposed on business. Some countries would strike that balance in a different 
way by requiring reporting in the Country-by-Country Report of additional transactional data 
(beyond that available in the master file and local file for transactions of entities operating in 
their jurisdictions) regarding related party interest payments, royalty payments and especially 
related party service fees. Countries expressing this view are primarily those from emerging 
markets (Argentina, Brazil, People’s Republic of China, Colombia, India, Mexico, South Africa, 
and Turkey) who state they need such information to perform risk assessment and who find it 
challenging to obtain information on the global operations of an MNE group headquartered 
elsewhere. Other countries expressed support for the way in which the balance has been struck 
in this document. Taking all these views into account, it is mandated that countries participating 
in the BEPS project will carefully review the implementation of these new standards and will 
reassess no later than the end of 2020 whether modifications to the content of these reports 
should be made to require reporting of additional or different data.

Consistent  and  effective  implementation  of  the  transfer  pricing  documentation 
standards  and  in  particular  of  the  Country-by-Country  Report  is  essential.  Therefore, 
countries participating in the OECD/G20 BEPS Project agreed on the core elements of the 
implementation of transfer pricing documentation and Country-by-Country Reporting. This 
agreement calls for the master file and the local file to be delivered by MNEs directly to 
local tax administrations. Country-by-Country Reports should be filed in the jurisdiction 
of  tax  residence  of  the  ultimate  parent  entity  and  shared  between  jurisdictions  through 
automatic  exchange  of  information,  pursuant  to  government-to-government  mechanisms 
such as the multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, 
bilateral  tax  treaties  or  tax  information  exchange  agreements  (TIEAs).  In  limited 
circumstances, secondary mechanisms, including local filing can be used as a backup.

These  new  Country-by-Country  Reporting  requirements  are  to  be  implemented  for 
fiscal years beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and apply, subject to the 2020 review, to 
MNEs with annual consolidated group revenue equal to or exceeding EUR 750 million. It 
is acknowledged that some jurisdictions may need time to follow their particular domestic 
legislative process in order to make necessary adjustments to the law.

In order to facilitate the implementation of the new reporting standards, an implementation 
package has been developed consisting of model legislation which could be used by countries 
to  require  MNE  groups  to  file  the  Country-by-Country  Report  and  competent  authority 
agreements that are to be used to facilitate implementation of the exchange of those reports 
among tax administrations. As a next step, it is intended that an xML Schema and a related 
User  Guide  will  be  developed  with  a  view  to  accommodating  the  electronic  exchange  of 
Country-by-Country Reports.

It is recognised that the need for more effective dispute resolution may increase as a 
result of the enhanced risk assessment capability following the adoption and implementation 
of  a  Country-by-Country  Reporting  requirement.  This  need  has  been  addressed  when 
designing  government-to-government  mechanisms  to  be  used  to  facilitate  the  automatic 
exchange of Country-by-Country Reports.

Jurisdictions endeavour to introduce, as necessary, domestic legislation in a timely manner. 
They are also encouraged to expand the coverage of their international agreements for exchange 
of information. Mechanisms will be developed to monitor jurisdictions’ compliance with their 
commitments and to monitor the effectiveness of the filing and dissemination mechanisms. The 
outcomes of this monitoring will be taken into consideration in the 2020 review.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

 ChAPTER v OF ThE TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES ON DOCUMENTATION – 11

Chapter V of the Transfer Pricing Guidelines on Documentation

The text of Chapter V of the Transfer Pricing Guidelines is deleted in its entirety and 
replaced with the following language and annexes.

A. Introduction

1. 
This  chapter  provides  guidance  for  tax  administrations  to  take  into  account  in 
developing  rules  and/or  procedures  on  documentation  to  be  obtained  from  taxpayers  in 
connection with a transfer pricing enquiry or risk assessment. It also provides guidance to 
assist taxpayers in identifying documentation that would be most helpful in showing that 
their trans