s they 
need  for  the  negotiations.  Where  one  tax  administration  obtains  additional 
information  from  the  taxpayer  relevant  to  the  subject  of  the  MAP  APA,  for 
example at a meeting with the taxpayer’s staff, both the taxpayer and the tax 
administration should ensure the information reaches the other participating tax 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS – 533

administration(s). The relevant competent authorities should arrange, amongst 
themselves  and  the  taxpayers,  for  an  appropriate  mechanism  to  corroborate 
the  completeness  and  details  of  documents  and  information  supplied  by  the 
taxpayer(s). The requirements of the participating competent authorities should 
be respected. For example, many jurisdictions require that not only is the same 
factual information provided to all participating competent authorities but that 
it should, as far as is practicable, be made available at the same time.

57. 
The prospective nature of a MAP APA often involves the provision 
by  the  taxpayer  of  commercial  information  relating  to  forecasts  which  is 
likely to be even more sensitive to disclosure than information supplied after 
the  event.  Accordingly,  in  order  to  ensure  that  taxpayers  have  confidence 
in the MAP APA process, tax administrations should ensure that taxpayer 
information provided during the course of the MAP APA process is subject 
to the same secrecy, confidentiality and privacy safeguards of the relevant 
domestic law as any other taxpayer information. Further, where information 
is exchanged between competent authorities under the terms of the tax treaty, 
that  information  can  be  disclosed  only  in  accordance  with  the  specified 
terms  of  the  treaty,  and  any  exchange  must  comply  with  the  exchange  of 
information article(s) of the relevant treaty.

58. 
Generally,  the  competent  authorities  would  conduct  simultaneous, 
independent reviews and evaluations of the taxpayer’s proposal, assisted in 
this task, where necessary, by transfer pricing, industry, or other specialists 
from elsewhere in their tax administration. However, it may be more efficient 
in appropriate cases to have some degree of joint fact finding. This could take 
a variety of forms ranging from an occasional joint fact finding meeting or 
site visit, to the preparation of a joint report by delegated caseworkers.

D.2.2. Role of taxpayer in the fact finding, review and evaluation process
59. 
In order to expedite the process, taxpayers should take responsibility 
for ensuring that the competent authorities, before they start to negotiate, are 
in possession of the same facts, have all the information they need and have 
a thorough understanding of the issues. This can be achieved by the taxpayer 
routinely making information requested by one tax administration available, 
at  broadly  the  same  time,  to  the  other  tax  administration,  preparing  and 
transmitting notes of fact finding meetings by one tax administration to the 
other tax administration and where logistically and economically practical, 
facilitating joint fact finding meetings. The taxpayer should also arrange for 
any  necessary  translations  to  be  made  and  ensure  there  is  no  undue  delay 
in  responding  to  requests  for  further  relevant  information.  The  taxpayer 
should also be entitled to confer with its tax administrations when mutually 
appropriate  and  convenient  while  the  proposal  is  undergoing  review  and 
evaluation, and should be kept informed of progress.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

534 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS

D.3. Conduct of Competent Authority discussions

D.3.1. Co-ordination amongst the Competent Authorities

60. 
Many jurisdictions prefer to be fully involved in the process as soon as 
it commences and wish to work closely with the other competent authorities. 
Other  countries  prefer  to  confine  their  involvement  to  reviewing  and 
commenting upon the MAP APA proposals as they near completion. However, 
the involvement of all participating tax administrations in the process at an 
early  stage  is  recommended,  subject  to  resource  constraints,  as  this  should 
maximise the efficiency of the process and help forestall unnecessary delays 
in concluding the mutual agreement.

61. 
The  competent  authorities  should  conduct  the  mutual  agreement 
discussions  in  a  timely  manner.  This  requires  the  devotion  of  sufficient 
resources and appropriately skilled personnel to the process. It is desirable 
that  the  competent  authorities  discuss  and  co-ordinate  an  appropriate  plan 
of  action  with  regards  to  such  matters  as:  designating  authorised  officers, 
exchanging of information, co-ordination of the review and evaluation of the 
proposal, tentative scheduling of dates for further consultations