 MNE Groups

Pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  Article  […]  of  the  Convention,  each 
Competent  Authority  will  annually  exchange  on  an  automatic  basis  the 
CbC  Report  received  from  each  Reporting  Entity  that  is  resident  for  tax 
purposes  in  its  Jurisdiction  with  the  other  Competent  Authority,  provided 
that, on the basis of the information provided in the CbC Report, one or more 
Constituent Entities of the MNE Group of the Reporting Entity are resident 
for tax purposes in the Jurisdiction of the other Competent Authority or, are 
subject to tax with respect to the business carried out through a permanent 
establishment situated in the Jurisdiction of the other Competent Authority.

SECTION 3
Time and Manner of Exchange of Information

For  the  purposes  of  the  exchange  of  information  in  Section  2,  the 

1. 
currency of the amounts contained in the CbC Report will be specified.

With  respect  to  Section  2,  a  CbC  Report  is  first  to  be  exchanged 
2. 
with  respect  to  fiscal  years  of  MNE  Groups  commencing  on  or  after  […]. 
Such CbC Report is to be exchanged as soon as possible and no later than 
18 months after the last day of the fiscal year of the MNE Group to which the 
CbC Report relates. CbC Reports with respect to subsequent fiscal years are 
to be exchanged as soon as possible and no later than 15 months after the last 
day of the fiscal year of the MNE Group to which the CbC Report relates.

The  Competent  Authorities  will  automatically  exchange  the  CbC 

3. 
Reports through a common schema in Extensible Markup Language.

4. 
The  Competent  Authorities  will  work  towards  and  agree  on  one  or 
more methods for electronic data transmission including encryption standards.

SECTION 4
Collaboration on Compliance and Enforcement

A Competent Authority will notify the other Competent Authority when 
the  first-mentioned  Competent  Authority  has  reason  to  believe,  with  respect 
to a Reporting Entity that is resident for tax purposes in the Jurisdiction of the 
other Competent Authority, that an error may have led to incorrect or incomplete 
information  reporting  or  that  there  is  non-compliance  of  a  Reporting  Entity 
with the respect to its obligation to file a CbC Report. The notified Competent 
Authority will take all appropriate measures available under its domestic law to 
address the errors or non-compliance described in the notice.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 591

SECTION 5
Confidentiality, Data Safeguards and Appropriate Use

1. 
All information exchanged is subject to the confidentiality rules and 
other  safeguards  provided  for  in  the  Convention,  including  the  provisions 
limiting the use of the information exchanged.

2. 
In addition to the restrictions in paragraph 1, the use of the information 
will  be  further  limited  to  the  permissible  uses  described  in  this  paragraph. 
In particular, information received by means of the CbC Report will be used 
for  assessing  high-level  transfer  pricing,  base  erosion  and  profit  shifting 
related  risks,  and,  where  appropriate,  for  economic  and  statistical  analysis. 
The information will not be used as a substitute for a detailed transfer pricing 
analysis  of  individual  transactions  and  prices  based  on  a  full  functional 
analysis and a full comparability analysis. It is acknowledged that information 
in  the  CbC  Report  on  its  own  does  not  constitute  conclusive  evidence  that 
transfer prices are or are not appropriate and, consequently, transfer pricing 
adjustments will not be based on the CbC Report. Inappropriate adjustments 
in contravention of this paragraph made by local tax administrations will be 
conceded in any competent authority proceedings. Notwithstanding the above, 
there is no prohibition on using the CbC Report data as a basis for making 
further  enquiries  into  the  MNE  Group’s  transfer  pricing  arrangements  or 
into other tax matters in the course of a tax audit and, as a result, appropriate 
adjustments to the taxable income of a Constituent Entity may be made.

3. 
To  the  extent  permitted  under  applicable  law,  each  Competent 
Authority will notify the other Competent Authority immediately regarding 
of any cases of non-compliance with the rules set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of 
this Section, including any remedial actions, as well as any measures taken in 
respect of non-compliance with the above-mentioned paragraphs.

SECTION 6
Consultations

1. 
In cases foreseen by Article [25] of the Convention, the Competent 
Authorities of both Jurisdictions shall consult each other and endeavour to 
resolve the situation by mutual agreement.

2. 
If  any  difficulties  in  the  implementation  or  interpretation  of  this 
Agreement  arise,  either  Competent  Authority  may  request  consultations