al  in  the  context 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION – 233

of  the  jurisdiction’s  tax  system.  Such  information  would  include  relevant 
financial information regarding those specific transactions, a comparability 
analysis, and the selection and application of the most appropriate transfer 
pricing method. Where a requirement of the local file can be fully satisfied 
by a specific cross-reference to information contained in the master file, such 
a cross-reference should suffice.
5.23.  Annex  II  to  Chapter  V  of  these  Guidelines  sets  out  the  items  of 
information to be included in the local file.

C.3. Country-by-Country Report

5.24.  The Country-by-Country Report requires aggregate tax jurisdiction-
wide  information  relating  to  the  global  allocation  of  the  income,  the  taxes 
paid, and certain indicators of the location of economic activity among tax 
jurisdictions  in  which  the  MNE  group  operates.  The  report  also  requires 
a  listing  of  all  the  Constituent  Entities  for  which  financial  information  is 
reported, including the tax jurisdiction of incorporation, where different from 
the tax jurisdiction of residence, as well as the nature of the main business 
activities carried out by that Constituent Entity.

5.25.  The Country-by-Country Report will be helpful for high-level transfer 
pricing risk assessment purposes. It may also be used by tax administrations 
in evaluating other BEPS related risks and where appropriate for economic 
and statistical analysis. However, the information in the Country-by-Country 
Report  should  not  be  used  as  a  substitute  for  a  detailed  transfer  pricing 
analysis  of  individual  transactions  and  prices  based  on  a  full  functional 
analysis and a full comparability analysis. The information in the Country-
by-Country  Report  on  its  own  does  not  constitute  conclusive  evidence 
that  transfer  prices  are  or  are  not  appropriate.  It  should  not  be  used  by  tax 
administrations  to  propose  transfer  pricing  adjustments  based  on  a  global 
formulary apportionment of income.

5.26.  Annex III to Chapter V of these Guidelines contains a model template 
for the Country-by-Country Report together with its accompanying instructions.

D. Compliance issues

D.1. Contemporaneous documentation

5.27.  Each  taxpayer  should  endeavour  to  determine  transfer  prices  for 
tax  purposes  in  accordance  with  the  arm’s  length  principle,  based  upon 
information  reasonably  available  at  the  time  of  the  transaction.  Thus,  a 
taxpayer ordinarily should give consideration to whether its transfer pricing 
is appropriate for tax purposes before the pricing is established and should 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

234 – CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION

confirm the arm’s length nature of its financial results at the time of filing 
its tax return.
5.28.  Taxpayers  should  not  be  expected  to  incur  disproportionately  high 
costs and burdens in producing documentation. Therefore, tax administrations 
should  balance  requests  for  documentation  against  the  expected  cost  and 
administrative  burden  to  the  taxpayer  of  creating  it.  Where  a  taxpayer 
reasonably demonstrates, having regard to the principles of these Guidelines, 
that either no comparable data exists or that the cost of locating the comparable 
data  would  be  disproportionately  high  relative  to  the  amounts  at  issue,  the 
taxpayer should not be required to incur costs in searching for such data.

D.2. Time frame

5.29. 
Practices regarding the timing of the preparation of the documentation 
differ  among  jurisdictions.  Some  jurisdictions  require  information  to  be 
finalised by the time the tax return is filed. Others require documentation to 
be in place by the time the audit commences. There is also a variety in practice 
regarding  the  amount  of  time  given  to  taxpayers  to  respond  to  specific  tax 
administration requests for documentation and other audit related information 
requests. These differences in the time requirements for providing information 
can add to taxpayers’ difficulties in setting priorities and in providing the right 
information to the tax administrations at the right time.

5.30.  The best practice is to require that the local file be finalised no later 
than the due date for the filing of the tax return for the fiscal year in question. 
The  master  file  should  be  reviewed  and,  if  necessary,  updated  by  the  tax 
return due date for the ultimate parent of the MNE group. In jurisdictions 
pursuing policies of auditing transactions as they occur under co-operative 
compliance programmes, it may be necessary for certain information to be 
provided in advance of the filing of the tax return.

5.31.  With regard to the Country-by-Country Report, it is recognised that 
in  some  instances  final  statutory  financ