lled  transactions,  one  important 
issue  is  to  assess  whether  a  risk  is  economically  significant,  i.e.  it  carries 
significant  profit  potential,  and,  as  a  consequence,  whether  that  risk  may 
explain  a  significant  reallocation  of  profit  potential.  The  significance  of  a 
risk will depend on the likelihood of the risk materialising and the size of the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

366 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

potential  profits  or  losses  arising  from  the  risk.  Accounting  statements  may 
provide  useful  information  on  the  probability  and  quantum  of  certain  risks 
(e.g.  bad  debt  risks,  inventory  risks),  if  past  performance  is  an  indicator  of 
current risks, but there are also economically significant risks that may not be 
separately recorded as such in the financial accounts (e.g. market risks). If a risk 
is assessed to be economically insignificant for the entity, then that risk would 
not explain a substantial amount of the entity’s profit potential. At arm’s length 
a party would not be expected to lay off a risk that is perceived as economically 
insignificant in exchange for a substantial decrease in its profit potential.

9.23.  For  instance,  where  a  full-fledged  distributor  is  converted  into  a 
limited-risk  distributor  or  commissionnaire  resulting  in  the  reduction  or 
elimination  of  risks  relating  to  inventory  in  the  restructured  enterprise,  in 
order  to  determine  whether  such  risk  is  economically  significant  the  tax 
administration may want to analyse:

•  The role of inventory in the business model (for example, speed to 

market, comprehensive range),

•  The nature of the inventory (for example, spare parts, fresh flowers),

•  The level of investment in inventory,

•  The  factors  giving  rise  to  inventory  write-downs  or  obsolescence 
(for  example,  perishability,  pricing  pressures,  speed  of  technical 
improvements, market conditions),

•  The history of write-down and stock obsolescence, and whether any 
commercial changes affect the reliability of historic performance as 
an indicator of current risk,

•  The cost of insuring against damage or loss of inventory, and

•  The history of damage or loss (if uninsured).

B.2.  Understanding the business reasons for and the expected 

benefits from the restructuring, including the role of synergies

9.24.  Some  businesses  have  indicated  that  multinational  businesses, 
regardless  of  their  products  or  sectors,  have  reorganised  their  structures  to 
provide more centralised control and management of manufacturing, research 
and  distribution  functions.  The  pressure  of  competition  in  a  globalised 
economy,  savings  from  economies  of  scale,  the  need  for  specialisation  and 
the  need  to  increase  efficiency  and  lower  costs  have  all  been  described  as 
important  in  driving  business  restructurings.  Where  anticipated  synergies 
are  put  forward  by  a  taxpayer  as  an  important  business  reason  for  the 
restructuring, it would be a good practice for the taxpayer to document, at the 
time the restructuring is decided upon or implemented, what these anticipated 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 367

synergies  are  and  on  what  assumptions  they  are  anticipated.  This  is  a  type 
of documentation that is likely to be produced at the group level for non-tax 
purposes,  to  support  the  decision-making  process  of  the  restructuring.  For 
Article 9 purposes, it would be a good practice for the taxpayer to document 
the  source  of  these  synergies  and  how  these  anticipated  synergies  impact 
at the entity level in applying the arm’s length principle (see Section D.8 of 
Chapter I). Care should be taken to ensure that, where deliberate concerted 
group  actions  are  taken  through  a  business  restructuring,  the  associated 
enterprises  contributing  to  the  synergistic  benefit  after  the  restructuring 
are appropriately remunerated (see the example in the following paragraph). 
Furthermore, while anticipated synergies may be relevant to the understanding 
of a business restructuring, care must be taken to avoid the use of hindsight in 
ex post analyses (see paragraph 3.74).

9.25.  For  example,  a  business  restructuring  may  involve  the  setting  up 
by  an  MNE  group  of  a  central  procurement  operation  that  replaces  the 
procurement  activities  of  several  associated  enterprises.  Similar  to  the 
guidance in paragraph 1.180 the MNE group has taken affirmative steps to 
centralise purchasing in a single group company to take advantage of volume 
discounts and potential savings in administrative costs. In accordance with 
the  guidance  in  Chapter  I,  the  benefits  due  to  deliberate  concerted  group 
action should be allocated to the associated enterprises whose contribu