re  found  in  transactions  between  independent  enterprises 
and may influence the margin. Thus, this type of exclusive right should be 
taken into account in any comparison. The value to be attributed to such an 
exclusive right will depend to some extent upon its geographical scope and 
the existence and relative competitiveness of possible substitute goods. The 
arrangement may be valuable to both the supplier and the reseller in an arm’s 
length transaction. For instance, it may stimulate the reseller to greater efforts 
to  sell  the  supplier’s  particular  line  of  goods.  On  the  other  hand,  such  an 
arrangement may provide the reseller with a kind of monopoly with the result 
that  the  reseller  possibly  can  realise  a  substantial  turn  over  without  great 
effort. Accordingly, the effect of this factor upon the appropriate resale price 
margin must be examined with care in each case. See also paragraphs 6.118 
and 6.120.

2.41.  Where the accounting practices differ from the controlled transaction 
to the uncontrolled transaction, appropriate adjustments should be made to 
the data used in calculating the resale price margin in order to ensure that the 
same types of costs are used in each case to arrive at the gross margin. For 
example, costs of R&D may be reflected in operating expenses or in costs 
of  sales.  The  respective  gross  margins  would  not  be  comparable  without 
appropriate adjustments.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

106 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

C.2.  Examples of the application of the resale price method

2.42.  Assume that there are two distributors selling the same product in the 
same market under the same brand name. Distributor A offers a warranty; 
Distributor B offers none. Distributor A is not including the warranty as part 
of a pricing strategy and so sells its product at a higher price resulting in a 
higher gross profit margin (if the costs of servicing the warranty are not taken 
into account) than that of Distributor B, which sells at a lower price. The two 
margins are not comparable until a reasonably accurate adjustment is made 
to account for that difference.

2.43.  Assume  that  a  warranty  is  offered  with  respect  to  all  products  so 
that the downstream price is uniform. Distributor C performs the warranty 
function but is, in fact, compensated by the supplier through a lower price. 
Distributor  D  does  not  perform  the  warranty  function  which  is  performed 
by the supplier (products are sent back to the factory). However, Distributor 
D’s  supplier  charges  D  a  higher  price  than  is  charged  to  Distributor  C.  If 
Distributor C accounts for the cost of performing the warranty function as 
a cost of goods sold, then the adjustment in the gross profit margins for the 
differences is automatic. However, if the warranty expenses are accounted 
for  as  operating  expenses,  there  is  a  distortion  in  the  margins  which  must 
be corrected. The reasoning in this case would be that, if D performed the 
warranty itself, its supplier would reduce the transfer price, and therefore, D’s 
gross profit margin would be greater.

2.44.  A company sells a product through independent distributors in five 
jurisdictions in which it has no subsidiaries. The distributors simply market 
the  product  and  do  not  perform  any  additional  work.  In  one  country,  the 
company has set up a subsidiary. Because this particular market is of strategic 
importance, the company requires its subsidiary to sell only its product and 
to perform technical applications for the customers. Even if all other facts 
and circumstances are similar, if the margins are derived from independent 
enterprises  that  do  not  have  exclusive  sales  arrangements  or  perform 
technical applications like those undertaken by the subsidiary, it is necessary 
to consider whether any adjustments must be made to achieve comparability.

D. Cost plus method

D.1.  In general

2.45.  The cost plus method begins with the costs incurred by the supplier 
of property (or services) in a controlled transaction for property transferred 
or  services  provided  to  an  associated  purchaser.  An  appropriate  cost  plus 
mark-up is then added to this cost, to make an appropriate profit in light of 
the functions performed and the market conditions. What is arrived at after 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 107

adding the cost plus mark up to the above costs may be regarded as an arm’s 
length price of the original controlled transaction. This method probably is 
most useful where semi finished goods are sold between associated parties, 
where  associated  parties  have  concluded  joint  facility  agreements  or  long-
term buy-and-supply arrangements, or where the controlled transaction is the 
provision of services.

2.46.  The cost plus mark-up of the supplier in the controlled transa