d to the denial of access to the mutual agreement procedure with respect 
to a treaty partner’s transfer pricing adjustments by including, as element 1.1 of 
the Action 14 minimum standard, a commitment to provide access to the mutual 
agreement procedure in transfer pricing cases.

4.44.  The Action 14 minimum standard also comprises a number of other 
elements intended to address more generally concerns related to the denial 
of access to the mutual agreement procedure. These include: a commitment 
to  provide  access  to  the  mutual  agreement  procedure  in  cases  in  which 
there is a disagreement between the taxpayer and the tax authorities making 
an  adjustment  as  to  whether  the  conditions  for  the  application  of  a  treaty 
anti-abuse  provision  have  been  met  or  as  to  whether  the  application  of  a 
domestic law anti-abuse provision is in conflict with the provisions of a treaty 
(element  1.2);  a  commitment  to  publish  rules,  guidelines  and  procedures 
regarding the mutual agreement procedure (element 2.1) and to identify in 
that guidance the specific information and documentation that a taxpayer is 
required to submit with a request for mutual agreement procedure assistance 
(element  3.2);  a  commitment  to  clarify  that  audit  settlements  between  tax 
authorities  and  taxpayers  do  not  preclude  access  to  the  mutual  agreement 
procedure (element 2.6); and a commitment to ensure that both competent 
authorities  are  made  aware  of  requests  for  mutual  agreement  procedure 
assistance by either (i) amending Article 25(1) to permit requests to be made 
to the competent authority of either Contracting State or (ii) implementing a 
bilateral notification or consultation process for cases in which the competent 
authority  to  whom  the  case  is  presented  does  not  consider  the  taxpayer’s 
objection to be justified (element 3.1).

C.4.2. Time limits

4.45.  Relief  under  paragraph  2  of  Article  9  may  be  unavailable  if  the 
time  limit  provided  by  treaty  or  domestic  law  for  making  corresponding 
adjustments has expired. Paragraph 2 of Article 9 does not specify whether 
there should be a time limit after which corresponding adjustments should not 
be made. Some jurisdictions prefer an open-ended approach so that double 
taxation  may  be  mitigated.  Other  jurisdictions  consider  the  open-ended 
approach to be unreasonable for administrative purposes. Thus, relief may 
depend on whether the applicable treaty overrides domestic time limitations, 
establishes other time limits, or links the implementation of relief to the time 
limits prescribed by domestic law.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

188 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

4.46.  Time limits for finalising a taxpayer’s tax liability are necessary to 
provide certainty for taxpayers and tax administrations. In a transfer pricing 
case  a  jurisdiction  may  under  its  domestic  law  be  legally  unable  to  make 
a  corresponding  adjustment  if  the  time  has  expired  for  finalising  the  tax 
liability of the relevant associated enterprise. Thus, the existence of such time 
limits and the fact that they vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction should be 
considered in order to minimise double taxation.
4.47. 
Paragraph  2  of  Article  25  of  the  OECD  Model  Tax  Convention 
addresses  the  time  limit  issue  by  requiring  that  any  agreement  reached  by 
the  competent  authorities  pursuant  to  the  mutual  agreement  procedure  shall 
be  implemented  notwithstanding  the  time  limits  in  the  domestic  law  of  the 
Contracting States. Paragraph 29 of the Commentary on Article 25 recognises 
that  the  last  sentence  of  Article  25(2)  unequivocally  states  the  obligation  to 
implement  such  agreements  (and  notes  that  impediments  to  implementation 
that exist at the time a tax treaty is entered into should generally be built into the 
terms of the agreement itself). Time limits therefore do not impede the making 
of corresponding adjustments where a bilateral treaty includes this provision. 
Some  jurisdictions,  however,  may  be  unwilling  or  unable  to  override  their 
domestic time limits in this way and have entered explicit reservations on this 
point. OECD member countries therefore are encouraged as far as possible to 
extend domestic time limits for purposes of making corresponding adjustments 
when mutual agreement procedures have been invoked.
4.48.  Where a bilateral treaty does not override domestic time limits for 
the purposes of the mutual agreement procedure, tax administrations should 
be  ready  to  initiate  discussions  quickly  upon  the  taxpayer’s  request,  well 
before the expiration of any time limits that would preclude the making of an 
adjustment. Furthermore, OECD member countries are encouraged to adopt 
domestic law that would allow the suspension of time limits on determining 
tax liabili