ptions should be provided, no general exemption for investment funds 
should be provided, and no exemption for non-corporate entities or non-public corporate 
entities should be provided. Notwithstanding this conclusion, countries participating in the 
OECD/G20 BEPS Project agree that MNE groups with income derived from international 
transportation or transportation in inland waterways that is covered by treaty provisions 
that  are  specific  to  such  income  and  under  which  the  taxing  rights  on  such  income  are 
allocated exclusively to one jurisdiction, should include the information required by the 
country-by-country  template  with  respect  to  such  income  only  against  the  name  of  the 
jurisdiction to which the relevant treaty provisions allocate these taxing rights.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

22 –  ChAPTER v OF ThE TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES ON DOCUMENTATION

E.2.3. Necessary conditions underpinning the obtaining and the use of the 
Country-by-Country Report

56.  Countries  participating  in  the  OECD/G20  BEPS  Project  agree  to  the  following 
conditions underpinning the obtaining and the use of the Country-by-Country Report.

Confidentiality

Jurisdictions should have in place and enforce legal protections of the confidentiality 
57. 
of  the  reported  information.  Such  protections  would  preserve  the  confidentiality  of 
the  Country-by-Country  Report  to  an  extent  at  least  equivalent  to  the  protections  that 
would  apply  if  such  information  were  delivered  to  the  country  under  the  provisions  of 
the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, a Tax 
Information  Exchange  Agreement  (TIEA)  or  a  tax  treaty  that  meets  the  internationally 
agreed  standard  of  information  upon  request  as  reviewed  by  the  Global  Forum  on 
Transparency  and  Exchange  of  Information  for  Tax  Purposes.  Such  protections  include 
limitation of the use of information, rules on the persons to whom the information may be 
disclosed, ordre public, etc.

Consistency

58. 
Jurisdictions  should  use  their  best  efforts  to  adopt  a  legal  requirement  that  MNE 
groups’ ultimate parent entities resident in their jurisdiction prepare and file the Country-
by-Country Report, unless exempted as set out in paragraph 52. Jurisdictions should utilise 
the  standard  template  contained  in  Annex  III  of  Chapter  v  of  these  Guidelines.  Stated 
otherwise, under this condition no jurisdiction will require that the Country-by-Country 
Report contain either additional information not contained in Annex III, nor will it fail to 
require reporting of information included in Annex III.

Appropriate Use

59. 
Jurisdictions  should  use  appropriately  the  information  in  the  Country-by-Country 
Report template in accordance with paragraph 25. In particular, jurisdictions will commit 
to  use  the  Country-by-Country  Report  for  assessing  high-level  transfer  pricing  risk. 
Jurisdictions  may  also  use  the  Country-by-Country  Report  for  assessing  other  BEPS-
related risks. Jurisdictions should not propose adjustments to the income of any taxpayer on 
the basis of an income allocation formula based on the data from the Country-by-Country 
Report. They will further commit that if such adjustments based on Country-by-Country 
Report data are made by the local tax administration of the jurisdiction, the jurisdiction’s 
competent  authority  will  promptly  concede  the  adjustment  in  any  relevant  competent 
authority proceeding. This does not imply, however, that jurisdictions would be prevented 
from using the Country-by-Country Report data as a basis for making further enquiries 
into the MNE’s transfer pricing arrangements or into other tax matters in the course of a 
tax audit.1

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

 ChAPTER v OF ThE TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES ON DOCUMENTATION – 23

E.2.4. The framework for government-to-government mechanisms to exchange 
Country-by-Country Reports and implementation package

E.2.4.1. Framework

60. 
Jurisdictions  should  require  in  a  timely  manner  Country-by-Country  Reporting 
from ultimate parent entities of MNE groups resident in their country and referred to in 
Section E.2.2 and exchange this information on an automatic basis with the jurisdictions 
in which the MNE group operates and which fulfil the conditions listed in Section E.2.3. 
In case a jurisdiction fails to provide information to a jurisdiction fulfilling the conditions 
listed in Section E.2.3, because (a) it has not required Country-by-Country Reporting from 
the  ultimate  parent  entity  of  such  MNE  groups,  (b)  no  competent  authority  agreement 
has  been  agreed  in  a  timely  manner  under  the  current  international  agreements  of  the 
jurisdiction  for  the  exchange  of  the  Country-by-Cou