n  of  tax  residence  of  the  UPE  that  has  been 
notified by the tax administration in the local jurisdiction to the Constituent Entity resident for tax 
purposes in that jurisdiction.  

The first of these conditions applies if the tax jurisdiction where the UPE of an MNE group is resident has 
not  introduced  a  requirement  for  a  CbC  report  to  be  filed.  It  also  applies  where  the  jurisdiction  has 
introduced a requirement for a CbC report to be filed but this is not in accordance with the BEPS Action 13 
minimum standard (including taking into account interpretative guidance) and, as a result, the UPE of an 
MNE group is not obligated to file a CbC report in that jurisdiction.  

Where the tax residence jurisdiction of the UPE of an MNE group does not require a CbC report to be filed, 
and  this  is  in  accordance  with  the  BEPS  Action  13  minimum  standard  (including  taking  into  account 
interpretative  guidance),  the  first  condition  is  not  met.  In  this  case,  local  filing  is  not  accepted  and 
jurisdictions cannot under the minimum standard require Constituent Entities to file a CbC report under 
local filing rules. 

4.2 In applying local filing, should a jurisdiction accept a CbC report containing 
information as prepared for filing in the Ultimate Parent Entity jurisdiction?  

The BEPS Action 13 report includes a template and definitions to be used by jurisdictions in implementing 
a  CbC  reporting  obligation,  supported  by  subsequent  interpretative  guidance.  Consistency  with  the 
minimum standard is monitored through the BEPS Action 13 peer review process. As such, CbC reports 
prepared  in  accordance  with  the  laws  in  different  jurisdictions  should  contain  substantially  consistent 
information. However, there may be cases where differences do exist in the information that must or may 
be included in a CbC report under the laws of two jurisdictions, and both are in accordance with the BEPS 
Action 13 minimum standard (e.g. where a different language is to be used, a different level of reasonable 
rounding is permitted in preparing Table 1, or where information on the addresses and tax identification 
numbers of Constituent Entities is required to be provided in Table 2 by one jurisdiction but not the other).  

Where the UPE of an MNE files a CbC report, and Constituent Entities of the MNE are also subject to local 
filing, jurisdictions applying local filing are encouraged to consider flexibility in allowing the MNE to file a 
CbC  report  containing  the  information  included  in  the  CbC  report  filed  in  the  UPE  jurisdiction.  In  many 
cases, this would simply mean that the jurisdiction applying local filing would receive the same information 
as if it had obtained the CbC report under exchange of information. In all cases, a CbC report filed in a 
jurisdiction should be in a format required or permitted in that jurisdiction. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
40 |   

4.3 Should local filing be required no earlier than 12 months after the end of the MNE 
group’s reporting fiscal year?  

Paragraph 31 of BEPS Action 13 report states that “the deadline for filing a CbC report by the UPE of the 
MNE group may be extended to one year following the last day of the reporting fiscal year of the UPE of 
the MNE Group.” This takes into account the fact that the necessary financial information to prepare a CbC 
report might not be available until after the due date for filing a tax return for a given fiscal year. However, 
the report remains silent on the deadline for filing CbC reports in the case of local filing. In practice, many 
jurisdictions apply the same deadline for the filing of CbC reports by UPEs and for local filing. This raises 
two important issues, in particular where the filing deadline applied in a jurisdiction is earlier than 12 months 
after the end of the reporting fiscal year.  

•  First, a local entity may find it difficult or impossible to obtain accurate CbC reporting information 
earlier than 12 months after the end of the reporting fiscal year, in particular if the UPE of the MNE 
is required to file a CbC report 12 months after the end of the reporting fiscal year and the MNE’s 
systems are intended to gather information to this timeframe.  

•  Second,  an  early  deadline  for  local  filing  may  mean  local  filing  is  required  in  cases  where  the 
conditions for local filing are no longer met by the time at which the UPE is required to file a CbC 
report. For example, if local filing is required because there is no CbC reporting obligation in the 
residence jurisdiction of the UPE, or because there is an international agreement in effect but no 
qualifying  competent  authority  agreement  between  the  jurisdictions,  this  shortcoming  may  be 
addressed before 12 months after the end of the reporting fiscal year. This could mean that 