uncil for 
publication on 22 July 2010.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 361

Part I: Arm’s length compensation for the 
restructuring itself

A. Introduction

9.10.  A business restructuring may involve cross-border transfers of something 
of value, e.g. of valuable intangibles, although this is not always the case. It may 
also or alternatively involve the termination or substantial renegotiation of existing 
arrangements,  e.g.  manufacturing  arrangements,  distribution  arrangements, 
licences, service agreements, etc. The first step in analysing the transfer pricing 
aspects of a business restructuring is to accurately delineate the transactions that 
comprise the business restructuring by identifying the commercial or financial 
relations and the conditions attached to those relations that lead to a transfer of 
value among the members of the MNE group. This is discussed in Section B. 
Section  C  discusses  the  recognition  of  accurately  delineated  transactions  that 
comprise  the  business  restructuring.  The  relationship  between  a  business 
restructuring and the reallocation of profit potential is addressed in Section D. The 
transfer pricing consequences of the transfer of something of value are discussed 
in Section E of this part and the transfer pricing consequences of the termination 
or substantial renegotiation of existing arrangements are discussed in Section F.

For transfer pricing purposes, the aim of the analysis is to determine 
9.11. 
whether,  under  Article  9  of  the  OECD  Model  Tax  Convention,  conditions 
have  been  made  or  imposed  in  transactions  comprising  a  business 
restructuring that differ from those that would be made or imposed between 
independent enterprises; and, if so, to determine the profits which would, but 
for those condi tions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of 
those conditions, have not so ac crued, and include them in the prof its of that 
enterprise and tax them accordingly.

9.12.  The arm’s length principle requires an evaluation of the conditions 
made or imposed between associated enterprises, at the level of each of them. 
The fact that a business restructuring may be motivated by sound commercial 
reasons at the level of the MNE group, e.g. in order to try to derive synergies 
at a group level, does not answer the question whether it is arm’s length from 
the perspectives of each of the restructured entities.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

362 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

B. Understanding the restructuring itself

The application of the arm’s length principle to a business restructuring 
9.13. 
must  start,  as  for  any  controlled  transaction,  with  the  identification  of  the 
commercial or financial relations between the associated enterprises involved 
in  the  business  restructuring  and  the  conditions  and  economically  relevant 
circumstances attaching to those relations so that the controlled transactions 
comprising the business restructuring are accurately delineated. In this regard, 
the general guidance in Section D.1 of Chapter I is applicable. This guidance 
requires the examination of the economically relevant characteristics of the 
commercial or financial relations between the associated enterprises, and in 
particular the contractual terms of the business restructuring (Section D.1.1); 
the  functions  performed  by  each  party  to  the  restructuring,  before  and 
after  the  restructuring,  taking  into  account  assets  used  and  risks  assumed 
(Section  D.1.2);  the  economic  circumstances  of  the  parties  (Section  D.1.4) 
and  business  strategies  (Section  D.1.5).  In  addition,  the  analysis  should 
be  informed  by  a  review  of  the  business  reasons  for  and  the  expected 
benefits  from  the  restructuring,  including  the  role  of  synergies,  and  the 
options  realistically  available  to  the  parties.  As  stated  in  paragraph  1.33, 
these conditions and economically relevant circumstances of the accurately 
delineated transactions that comprise the business restructuring will then be 
compared  with  the  conditions  and  economically  relevant  circumstances  of 
comparable transactions between independent enterprises.

9.14.  Aspects of identifying the commercial or financial relations between 
the parties which are particularly relevant to determining the arm’s length 
conditions of business restructurings, are analysed in the following sections:

•  The accurate delineation of the transactions comprising the business 
restructuring and the functions, assets and risks before and after the 
restructuring (see Section B.1);

•  The  business  reasons  for  and  the  expected  benefits  from  the 
restructuring, including the role of synergies (see Section B.2);

•  The other options realistically available to the parties (see Section B.3).

B.1.  Accurate delineatio