  appropriate  situations 
for  common  classes  of  transfer  pricing  cases.  The  use  of  these  sample 
memoranda of understanding should not be considered as either mandatory 
or prescriptive in establishing bilateral or multilateral safe harbours. Rather, 
they  are  intended  to  provide  a  possible  framework  for  adaptation  to  the 
particular needs of the tax authorities of the jurisdictions concerned.

E.4.3. Possibility of opening avenues for tax planning

4.122.  Safe  harbours  may  also  provide  taxpayers  with  tax  planning 
opportunities. Enterprises may have an incentive to modify their transfer prices 
in order to shift taxable income to other jurisdictions. This may also possibly 
induce tax avoidance, to the extent that artificial arrangements are entered into 
for the purpose of exploiting the safe harbour provisions. For instance, if safe 
harbours apply to “simple” or “small” transactions, taxpayers may be tempted to 
break transactions up into parts to make them seem simple or small.

4.123.  If  a  safe  harbour  were  based  on  an  industry  average,  tax  planning 
opportunities might exist for taxpayers with better than average profitability. 
For example, a cost-efficient company selling at the arm’s length price may 
be earning a mark-up of 15% on controlled sales. If a jurisdiction adopts a 
safe harbour requiring a 10% mark-up, the company might have an incentive 
to  comply  with  the  safe  harbour  and  shift  the  remaining  5%  to  a  lower 
tax  jurisdiction.  Consequently,  taxable  income  would  be  shifted  out  of  the 
jurisdiction.  When  applied  on  a  large  scale,  this  could  mean  significant 
revenue loss for the jurisdiction offering the safe harbour.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 211

4.124.  This  concern  may  largely  be  avoided  by  the  solution  noted  in 
paragraph  4.119  of  adopting  safe  harbours  on  a  bilateral  or  multilateral 
basis,  thus  limiting  application  of  safe  harbours  to  transactions  involving 
jurisdictions  with  similar  transfer  pricing  concerns.  In  adopting  bilateral 
and multilateral safe harbours, tax administrations would need to be aware 
that  the  establishment  of  an  extensive  network  of  such  arrangements  could 
potentially encourage “safe harbour shopping” via the routing of transactions 
through territories with more favourable safe harbours and take appropriate 
steps to avoid that possibility. Similarly, jurisdictions adopting bilateral safe 
harbours would be well advised to target fairly narrow ranges of acceptable 
results and to require consistent reporting of income in each jurisdiction that 
is a party to the safe harbour arrangement. Treaty exchange of information 
provisions could be used by jurisdictions where necessary to confirm the use 
of consistent reporting under such a bilateral safe harbour.

4.125.  Whether  a  jurisdiction  is  prepared  to  possibly  suffer  some  erosion 
of  its  own  tax  base  in  implementing  a  safe  harbour  is  for  that  jurisdiction 
to decide. The basic trade-off in making such a policy decision is between 
the certainty and administrative simplicity of the safe harbour for taxpayers 
and tax administrations on the one hand, and the possibility of tax revenue 
erosion on the other.

E.4.4. Equity and uniformity issues

issues.  By 
4.126.  Safe  harbours  may  raise  equity  and  uniformity 
implementing  a  safe  harbour,  one  would  create  two  distinct  sets  of  rules  in 
the transfer pricing area. Clearly and carefully designed criteria are required 
to differentiate those taxpayers or transactions eligible for the safe harbour to 
minimise the possibility of similar and possibly competing taxpayers finding 
themselves on opposite sides of the safe harbour threshold or, conversely, of 
allowing  application  of  the  safe  harbour  to  unintended  taxpayers  or  trans-
actions.  Insufficiently  precise  criteria  could  result  in  similar  taxpayers 
receiving  different  tax  treatment:  one  being  permitted  to  meet  the  safe 
harbour rules and thus to be relieved from general transfer pricing compliance 
provisions, and the other being obliged to price its transactions in conformity 
with  the  general  transfer  pricing  compliance  provisions.  Preferential  tax 
treatment under safe harbour regimes for a specific category of taxpayers could 
potentially entail discrimination and competitive distortions. The adoption of 
bilateral or multilateral safe harbours could, in some circumstances, increase 
the potential of a divergence in tax treatment, not merely between different but 
similar taxpayers but also between similar transactions carried out by the same 
taxpayer with associated enterprises in different jurisdictions.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

212 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

E.5.  Recommendations on use of safe harbours

