NE Group 
headquartered in Country A which is not filing a CbC report in Country A because its 
revenues, while in excess of EUR 750 million, are below the threshold in Country A?  

As set out in the Action 13 Report, the agreed threshold is EUR 750 million or a near equivalent amount 
in  domestic currency as of January  2015.  Provided that the jurisdiction of the  UPE has implemented a 
reporting threshold that is a near equivalent of EUR 750 million in domestic currency as it was at January 
2015, an MNE Group that complies with this local threshold should not be exposed to local filing in any 
other jurisdiction that is using a threshold denominated in a different currency.  

There is no requirement for a jurisdiction using a threshold denominated other than in euros to periodically 
revise this in order to reflect currency fluctuations. The appropriateness of the EUR 750 million threshold 
(and near equivalent amounts in domestic currency as of January 2015) may be included in the review of 
the CbC reporting minimum standard to occur in 2020. 

Definition of total consolidated group revenue (April 2017; updated November 
2017, February 2018)  

2.1 For the purpose of determining whether an MNE Group is an Excluded MNE Group, 
are extraordinary income and gains from investment activities included in total 
consolidated group revenue?  

In determining whether the total consolidated group revenue  of an MNE Group is less than 750 million 
Euro (or near equivalent amount in local currency as of January 2015), all of the revenue that is (or would 
be) reflected in the consolidated financial statements should be used. A jurisdiction where the UPE resides 
is  allowed  to  require  inclusion  of  extraordinary  income  and  gains  from  investment  activities  in  total 
consolidated group revenue if those items are presented in the consolidated financial statements under 
applicable accounting rules. 

For financial entities, which may not record gross amounts from transactions in their financial statements 
with respect to certain items, the item(s) considered similar to revenue under the applicable accounting 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
24 |   

rules should be used in the context of financial activities. Those items could be labelled as ‘net banking 
product’, ‘net revenues’ or others depending on accounting rules. For example, if the income or gains from 
a  financial  transaction,  such  as  an  interest  rate  swap,  is  appropriately  reported  on  a  net  basis  under 
applicable accounting rules, the term ‘revenue’ means the net amount from the transaction.  

An MNE Group that complies with the rules of the jurisdiction of the UPE or the SPE on the calculation of 
consolidated group revenue for purposes of determining its CbC filing obligations, should not be exposed 
to local filing in any other jurisdiction provided the rules of the jurisdiction where the UPE/SPE is resident 
for  tax  purposes  are  consistent  with  the  Action  13  minimum  standard,  as  supplemented  by  the 
implementation guidance. 

2.2 To calculate total consolidated group revenue under Article 1.3 of the Model 
Legislation, can an MNE Group which does not have equity interests traded on a public 
securities exchange use consolidated financial statements based on accounting 
principles/standards different from those that are used to determine the existence of and 
membership of a group under Article 1.1 of the Model Legislation?  

An  MNE  Group  which  is  not  required  to  prepare  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in  its  residence 
jurisdiction,  for  example  because  it  does  not  have  its  equity  interests  traded  on  a  public  securities 
exchange, may still prepare Consolidated Financial Statements. These may be, for example, for use by 
investors  and  lenders.  In  some  cases,  these  may  be  prepared  using  generally  accepted  accounting 
principles  other  than  those  that  must  be  used  for  the  purposes  of  determining  the  existence  and 
membership of a group under Article 1.1. of the Model Legislation. In these cases, the MNE Group is still 
required  to  calculate  total  consolidated  group  revenue  for  the  purposes  of  Article  1.3  based  on  the 
accounting standards to be used for identifying a group under Article 1.1. 

Short accounting periods / long accounting periods (September 2017, November 
2017, November 2019, October 2022)  

3.1 Is transitional relief available for MNE Groups with a short accounting period that 
starts on or after 1 January 2016 and that ends before 31 December 2016?  

As  a  transitional  measure,  jurisdictions  may  allow  the  Reporting  Entity  of  an  MNE  Group  with  a  short 
accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and ending before 31 December 2016 to file the 
required CbC report in accordance with the same timelines as for MNE Groups with a fis