he  industry  sector  in  which  the  MNE  group  operates 
(e.g.  mining,  pharmaceutical,  luxury  goods)  and  of  the  factors  affecting  the 
performance  of  any  business  operating  in  that  sector.  The  understanding  is 
derived from an overview of the particular MNE group which outlines how 
the MNE group responds to the factors affecting performance in the sector, 
including its business strategies, markets, products, its supply chain, and the 
key functions performed, material assets used, and important risks assumed. 
This information is likely to be included as part of the master file as described 
in  Chapter  V  in  support  of  a  taxpayer’s  analysis  of  its  transfer  pricing,  and 
provides useful context in which the commercial or financial relations between 
members of the MNE group can be considered.

1.35.  The  process  then  narrows  to  identify  how  each  MNE  within  that 
MNE  group  operates,  and  provides  an  analysis  of  what  each  MNE  does 
(e.g.  a  production  company,  a  sales  company)  and  identifies  its  commercial 
or financial relations with associated enterprises as expressed in transactions 
between them. The accurate delineation of the actual transaction or transactions 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

40 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

between the associated enterprises requires analysis of the economically relevant 
characteristics of the transaction. These economically relevant characteristics 
consist  of  the  conditions  of  the  transaction  and  the  economically  relevant 
circumstances in which the transaction takes place. The application of the arm’s 
length principle depends on determining the conditions that independent parties 
would  have  agreed  in  comparable  transactions  in  comparable  circumstances. 
Before  making  comparisons  with  uncontrolled  transactions,  it  is  therefore 
vital to identify the economically relevant characteristics of the commercial or 
financial relations as expressed in the controlled transaction.

1.36.  The  economically  relevant  characteristics  or  comparability  factors 
that need to be identified in the commercial or financial relations between the 
associated enterprises in order to accurately delineate the actual transaction 
can be broadly categorised as follows:

•  The contractual terms of the transaction (D.1.1).

•  The  functions  performed  by  each  of  the  parties  to  the  transaction, 
taking  into  account  assets  used  and  risks  assumed,  including  how 
those functions relate to the wider generation of value by the MNE 
group to which the parties belong, the circumstances surrounding the 
transaction, and industry practices (D.1.2).

•  The  characteristics  of  property  transferred  or  services  provided 

(D.1.3).

•  The economic circumstances of the parties and of the market in which 

the parties operate (D.1.4).

•  The business strategies pursued by the parties (D.1.5).

This information about the economically relevant characteristics of the 
actual transaction should be included as part of the local file as described in 
Chapter V in support of a taxpayer’s analysis of its transfer pricing.

1.37.  Economically relevant characteristics or comparability factors are used 
in two separate but related phases in a transfer pricing analysis. The first phase 
relates to the process of accurately delineating the controlled transaction for 
the purposes of this chapter, and involves establishing the characteristics of the 
transaction, including its terms, the functions performed, assets used, and risks 
assumed by the associated enterprises, the nature of the products transferred 
or services provided, and the circumstances of the associated enterprises, in 
accordance with the categories set out in the previous paragraph. The extent to 
which any one of the characteristics categorised above is economically relevant 
in a particular transaction depends on the extent to which it would be taken 
into account by independent enterprises when evaluating the terms of the same 
transaction were it to occur between them.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 41

1.38. 
Independent  enterprises,  when  evaluating  the  terms  of  a  potential 
transaction,  will  compare  the  transaction  to  the  other  options  realistically 
available  to  them,  and  they  will  only  enter  into  the  transaction  if  they  see 
no alternative that offers a clearly more attractive opportunity to meet their 
commercial objectives. In other words, independent enterprises would only 
enter  into  a  transaction  if  it  is  not  expected  to  make  them  worse  off  than 
their  next  best  option.  For  example,  one  enterprise  is  unlikely  to  accept  a 
price offered for its product by an independent commercial enterprise if it 
knows that other potential customers are willing to pay more under similar 
condition