 differences, 
separate  company  efficiencies,  and  other  factors  specific  to  one  company 
or  sub-grouping  within  the  MNE  group  that  may  legitimately  play  a  role 
in  determining  the  division  of  profits  between  enterprises  in  different  tax 
jurisdictions.  The  arm’s  length  principle,  in  contrast,  recognises  that  an 
associated enterprise may be a separate profit or loss centre with individual 
characteristics and economically may be earning a profit even when the rest 
of the MNE group is incurring a loss. Global formulary apportionment does 
not have the flexibility to account properly for this possibility.

1.30.  By  disregarding  intra-group  transactions  for  the  purpose  of 
computing consolidated profits, global formulary apportionment would raise 
questions about the relevance of imposing withholding taxes on cross-border 
payments between group members and would involve a rejection of a number 
of rules incorporated in bilateral tax treaties.

1.31.  Unless  global  formulary  apportionment  includes  every  member  of 
an MNE group, it must retain a separate entity rule for the interface between 
that part of the group subject to global formulary apportionment and the rest 
of  the  MNE  group.  Global  formulary  apportionment  could  not  be  used  to 
value  the  transactions  between  the  global  formulary  apportionment  group 
and  the  rest  of  the  MNE  group.  Thus,  a  clear  disadvantage  with  global 
formulary apportionment is that it does not provide a complete solution to the 
allocation of profits of an MNE group unless global formulary apportionment 
is  applied  on  the  basis  of  the  whole  MNE  group.  This  exercise  would  be  a 
serious undertaking for a single tax administration given the size and scale of 
operations of major MNE groups and the information that would be required. 
The MNE group would also be required, in any event, to maintain separate 
accounting for corporations that are not members of the MNE group for global 
formulary apportionment tax purposes but that are still associated enterprises 
of  one  or  more  members  of  the  MNE  group.  In  fact,  many  domestic 
commercial and accountancy rules would still require the use of arm’s length 
prices (e.g. customs rules), so that irrespective of the tax provisions a taxpayer 
would have to book properly every transaction at arm’s length prices.

C.3.  Rejection of non-arm’s-length methods

1.32.  For  the  foregoing  reasons,  OECD  member  countries  reiterate  their 
support for the consensus on the use of the arm’s length principle that has 
emerged over the years among member and non-member countries and agree 
that the theoretical alternative to the arm’s length principle represented by 
global formulary apportionment should be rejected.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

D. Guidance for applying the arm’s length principle

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 39

D.1.  Identifying the commercial or financial relations
1.33.  As stated in paragraph 1.6 a “comparability analysis” is at the heart 
of  the  application  of  the  arm’s  length  principle.  Application  of  the  arm’s 
length  principle  is  based  on  a  comparison  of  the  conditions  in  a  controlled 
transaction  with  the  conditions  that  would  have  been  made  had  the  parties 
been independent and undertaking a comparable transaction under comparable 
circumstances. There are two key aspects in such an analysis: the first aspect 
is  to  identify  the  commercial  or  financial  relations  between  the  associated 
enterprises  and  the  conditions  and  economically  relevant  circumstances 
attaching to those relations in order that the controlled transaction is accurately 
delineated; the second aspect is to compare the conditions and the economically 
relevant circumstances of the controlled transaction as accurately delineated 
with the conditions and the economically relevant circumstances of comparable 
transactions between independent enterprises. This section of Chapter I provides 
guidance  on  identifying  the  commercial  or  financial  relations  between  the 
associated enterprises and on accurately delineating the controlled transaction. 
This first aspect of the analysis is distinct from the second aspect of considering 
the  pricing  of  that  controlled  transaction  under  the  arm’s  length  principle. 
Chapters II and III provide guidance on the second aspect of the analysis. The 
information about the controlled transaction determined under the guidance in 
this section is especially relevant for steps 2 and 3 of the typical process of a 
comparability analysis set out in paragraph 3.4.

1.34.  The typical process of identifying the commercial or financial relations 
between  the  associated  enterprises  and  the  conditions  and  economically 
relevant  circumstances  attaching  to  those  relations  requires  a  broad-based 
understanding  of  t