  taking  in  accepting  the 
contingent liability and to reflect any value it is providing to the borrower 
in  respect  of  the  guarantee.  However,  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  an 
independent  guarantor’s  charges  will  in  part  reflect  costs  incurred  in  the 
process of raising capital and in satisfying regulatory requirements. Those 
are costs which associated enterprises might not incur.

D.2.2. Yield approach
10.174.  This  approach  quantifies  the  benefit  that  the  guaranteed  party 
receives  from  the  guarantee  in  terms  of  lower  interest  rates.  The  method 
calculates the spread between the interest rate that would have been payable 
by the borrower without the guarantee and the interest rate payable with the 
guarantee. The first step is to determine the interest rate that would have been 
payable by the borrower on its own merits, taking into account the impact of 
implicit support as a result of its group membership. See Section C.1.2.

10.175.  The  next  step  would  be  to  determine,  by  a  similar  process  (unless 
directly  observable  in  the  case  of  a  loan  from  a  third  party),  the  interest 
rate  payable  with  the  benefit  of  the  explicit  guarantee.  The  interest  spread 
can  be  used  in  quantifying  the  benefit  gained  by  the  borrower  as  a  result 
of  the  guarantee.  In  determining  the  extent  of  the  benefit  provided  by  the 
guarantee, it is important to distinguish the impact of an explicit guarantee 
from the effects of any implicit support as a result of group membership. See 
Example 2 in paragraph 1.187. The benefit to be priced is not the difference 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 439

between the cost to the unguaranteed borrower on a stand-alone basis and 
the cost with the explicit guarantee but the difference between the cost to the 
borrower after taking into account the benefit of any implicit support and the 
cost with the benefit of the explicit guarantee.

10.176.  The  benefit  of  implicit  support  will  be  the  difference  between  the 
borrowing terms attainable by the borrowing entity based on its credit rating 
as  a  member  of  the  MNE  group  and  those  attainable  on  the  basis  of  the 
stand-alone credit rating it would have had if it were an entirely unaffiliated 
enterprise.  If  the  borrower  has  its  own  independent  credit  rating  from  an 
unrelated credit rating agency, this will usually reflect its membership of the 
MNE group and so ordinarily no adjustment would be needed to this credit 
rating to reflect implicit support.

10.177.  The result of this analysis sets a maximum fee for the guarantee (the 
maximum amount that the recipient of the guarantee will be willing to pay), 
namely, the difference between the interest rate with the guarantee and the 
interest  rate  without  the  guarantee  but  with  the  benefit  of  implicit  support 
(and taking into account any costs). The borrower would have no incentive 
to enter into the guarantee arrangement if, in total, it pays the same to the 
bank in interest and to the guarantor in fees as it would have paid to the bank 
in interest without the guarantee. Therefore this maximum fee does not of 
itself necessarily reflect the outcome of a bargain made at arm’s length but 
represents the maximum that the borrower would be prepared to pay.

D.2.3. Cost approach

10.178.  This  method  aims  to  quantify  the  additional  risk  borne  by  the 
guarantor  by  estimating  the  value  of  the  expected  loss  that  the  guarantor 
incurs  by  providing  the  guarantee  (loss  given  default).  Alternatively  the 
expected  cost  could  be  determined  by  reference  to  the  capital  required  to 
support the risks assumed by the guarantor.

10.179.  There are a number of possible models for estimating the expected 
loss  and  capital  requirement.  Popular  pricing  models  for  this  approach 
work  on  the  premise  that  financial  guarantees  are  equivalent  to  another 
financial  instrument  and  pricing  the  alternative,  for  example,  treating  the 
guarantee  as  a  put  option  and  using  option  pricing  models,  credit  default 
swap  pricing  models,  etc.  For  instance,  publicly  available  data  of  credit 
default swaps spreads may be used to approximate the default risk associated 
to the borrowing and, therefore, the guarantee fee. When using this type of 
data, the identification of the default event (e.g. bankruptcy) is central to the 
comparability analysis between the controlled transaction and the potentially 
comparable credit default swap (See Section C.1.2, on the reliability of credit 
default swap data).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

440 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

10.180.  Pricing under each model will be sensitive to the assumptions made 
in the modelling process. Whatever valuation model is used, the evaluation of 
co