to help identify relevant risks 
with specificity. In addition, this section provides guidance on risk assumption 
under  the  arm’s  length  principle.  The  detailed  guidance  provided  in  this 
section  on  the  analysis  of  risks  as  part  of  a  functional  analysis  covering 
functions, assets, and risks, should not be interpreted as indicating that risks 
are  more  important  than  functions  or  assets.  The  relevance  of  functions, 
assets and risks in a specific transaction will need to be determined through 
a  detailed  functional  analysis.  The  expanded  guidance  on  risks  reflects  the 
practical difficulties presented by risks: risks in a transaction can be harder to 
identify than functions or assets, and determining which associated enterprise 
assumes a particular risk in a transaction can require careful analysis.

1.60.  The steps in the process set out in the rest of this section for analysing 
risk  in  a  controlled  transaction,  in  order  to  accurately  delineate  the  actual 
transaction in respect to that risk, can be summarised as follows:

1. 

Identify  economically  significant  risks  with  specificity  (see 
Section D.1.2.1.1).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 49

2.  Determine how specific economically significant risks are contractually 
assumed by the associated enterprises under the terms of the transaction 
(see Section D.1.2.1.2).

3.  Determine  through  a  functional  analysis  how  the  associated 
enterprises that are parties to the transaction operate in relation to 
assumption and management of the specific, economically significant 
risks,  and  in  particular  which  enterprise  or  enterprises  perform 
control  functions  and  risk  mitigation  functions,  which  enterprise 
or  enterprises  encounter  upside  or  downside  consequences  of  risk 
outcomes,  and  which  enterprise  or  enterprises  have  the  financial 
capacity to assume the risk (see Section D.1.2.1.3).

4.  Steps 2-3 will have identified information relating to the assumption 
and management of risks in the controlled transaction. The next step 
is to interpret the information and determine whether the contractual 
assumption of risk is consistent with the conduct of the associated 
enterprises  and  other  facts  of  the  case  by  analysing  (i)  whether 
the  associated  enterprises  follow  the  contractual  terms  under  the 
principles of Section D.1.1; and (ii) whether the party assuming risk, 
as  analysed  under  (i),  exercises  control  over  the  risk  and  has  the 
financial capacity to assume the risk (see Section D.1.2.1.4).

5.  Where the party assuming risk under steps 1-4(i) does not control the 
risk or does not have the financial capacity to assume the risk, apply 
the guidance on allocating risk (see Section D.1.2.1.5).

6.  The  actual  transaction  as  accurately  delineated  by  considering 
the  evidence  of  all  the  economically  relevant  characteristics  of  the 
transaction  as  set  out  in  the  guidance  in  Section  D.1,  should  then 
be priced taking into account the financial and other consequences 
of  risk  assumption,  as  appropriately  allocated,  and  appropriately 
compensating risk management functions (see Section D.1.2.1.6).

In  this  section  references  are  made  to  terms  that  require  initial 
1.61. 
explanation and definition. The term “risk management” is used to refer to 
the function of assessing and responding to risk associated with commercial 
activity.  Risk  management  comprises  three  elements:  (i)  the  capability  to 
make  decisions  to  take  on,  lay  off,  or  decline  a  risk-bearing  opportunity, 
together  with  the  actual  performance  of  that  decision-making  function, 
(ii) the capability to make decisions on whether and how to respond to the 
risks associated with the opportunity, together with the actual performance 
of that decision-making function, and (iii) the capability to mitigate risk, that 
is the capability to take measures that affect risk outcomes, together with the 
actual performance of such risk mitigation.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

50 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

1.62. 
Some risk management functions can be undertaken only by the party 
performing functions and using assets in creating and pursuing commercial 
opportunities, while other risk management functions can be undertaken by 
a  different  party.  Risk  management  should  not  be  thought  of  as  necessarily 
encompassing  a  separate  function,  requiring  separate  remuneration,  distinct 
from  the  performance  of  the  activities  that  optimise  profits.  For  example, 
the  development  of  intangibles  through  development  activities  may  involve 
mitigating  risks  relating  to  performing  the  development  according  to 
specifications at the highest possible standards and on time; the particular risks 
might be miti