 
group  maintains  two  R&D  centres,  one  operated  by  Shuyona  in  Country  X, 
and the other operated by Company S, a subsidiary of Shuyona, operating in 
Country y.

50. 
The  Shuyona  group  sells  two  lines  of  products.  All  R&D  with 
respect to product line A is conducted by Shuyona. All R&D with respect 
to product line B is conducted by the R&D centre operated by Company S. 
Company  S  also  functions  as  the  regional  headquarters  of  the  Shuyona 
group in North America and has global responsibility for the operation of the 
business relating to product line B. However, all patents developed through 
Company S research efforts are registered by Shuyona. Shuyona makes no or 
only a nominal payment to Company S in relation to the patentable inventions 
developed by the Company S R&D centre.

The Shuyona and Company S R&D centres operate autonomously. 
51. 
Each  bears  its  own  operating  costs.  Under  the  general  policy  direction  of 
Shuyona senior management, the Company S R&D centre develops its own 
research  programmes,  establishes  its  own  budgets,  makes  determinations 
as  to  when  R&D  projects  should  be  terminated  or  modified,  and  hires  its 
own R&D staff. The Company S R&D centre reports to the product line B 
management team in Company S, and does not report to the Shuyona R&D 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 617

centre. Joint meetings between the Shuyona and Company S R&D teams are 
sometimes held to discuss research methods and common issues.

52. 
The  transfer  pricing  analysis  of  this  fact  pattern  would  begin  by 
recognising that Shuyona is the legal owner/registrant of intangibles developed 
by Company S. Unlike the situation in Example 14, however, Shuyona neither 
performs  nor  exercises  control  over  the  research  functions  carried  out  by 
Company S, including the important functions related to management, design, 
budgeting and funding that research. Accordingly, Shuyona’s legal ownership 
of  the  intangibles  does  not  entitle  it  to  retain  or  be  attributed  any  income 
related to the product line B intangibles. Tax administrations could arrive at an 
appropriate transfer pricing outcome by recognising Shuyona’s legal ownership 
of the intangibles but by noting that, because of the contributions of Company S 
in  the  form  of  functions,  assets,  and  risks,  appropriate  compensation  to 
Company  S  for  its  contributions  could  be  ensured  by  confirming  that 
Company S should make no royalty or other payment to Shuyona for the right 
to use any successfully developed Company S intangibles, so that the future 
income derived from the exploitation of those intangibles by Company S would 
be allocated to Company S and not to Shuyona.

If Shuyona exploits the product line B intangibles by itself, Shuyona 
53. 
should  provide  appropriate  compensation  to  Company  S  for  its  functions 
performed, assets used and risks assumed related to intangible development. 
In determining the appropriate level of compensation for Company S, the fact 
that Company S performs all of the important functions related to intangible 
development would likely make it inappropriate to treat Company S as the 
tested party in an R&D service arrangement.

Example 16

54. 
Shuyona is the parent company of an MNE group. Shuyona is organised 
in  and  operates  exclusively  in  Country  X.  The  Shuyona  group  is  involved 
in the production and sale of consumer goods. In order to maintain and, if 
possible, improve its market position, ongoing research is carried out by the 
Shuyona group to improve existing products and develop new products. The 
Shuyona  group  maintains  two  R&D  centres,  one  operated  by  Shuyona  in 
Country X, and the other operated by Company S, a subsidiary of Shuyona, 
operating in Country y. The relationships between the Shuyona R&D centre 
and the Company S R&D centre are as described in Example 14.

55. 
In  year  1,  Shuyona  sells  all  rights  to  patents  and  other  technology 
related  intangibles,  including  rights  to  use  those  intangibles  in  ongoing 
research, to a new subsidiary, Company T, organised in Country Z. Company T 
establishes a manufacturing facility in Country Z and begins to supply products 
to  members  of  the  Shuyona  group  around  the  world.  For  purposes  of  this 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

618 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES

example, it is assumed that the compensation paid by Company T in exchange 
for the transferred patents and related intangibles is based on a valuation of 
anticipated  future  cash  flows  generated  by  the  transferred  intangibles  at  the 
time of the transfer.

56. 
At  the  same  time  as  the  transfer  of  patents  and  other  technology 
related  intangibles,  Company  T  enters  into  a  contract  research  agreement 
with Shuyona an