cal year ending 
on 31 December 2016. The date by which the CbC report is to be exchanged would be similarly extended. 
This transitional relief would not frustrate the policy intention of the Action 13 minimum standard. 

3.2 When the preceding fiscal year of an Ultimate Parent Entity was shorter than 12 
months, how should it be determined whether the Group is or is not an Excluded MNE 
Group?  

For purposes of applying the 750 million Euro threshold in Article 1.3 of the Model Legislation when the 
preceding fiscal year of an UPE is shorter than 12 months, the jurisdiction of the UPE may choose to adopt 
one of a number of different approaches, including the following:  

1.  Use the actual total consolidated group revenue obtained by the Group for the short accounting 

period; 

2.  Adjust  the  total  consolidated  group  revenue  for  the  short  accounting  period  to  reflect  the 

consolidated group revenue that would correspond to a 12 month accounting period; or 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
  | 25 

3.  Calculate the pro rata share of the 750 million Euro threshold that would correspond to the short 

accounting period. 

This flexibility given to jurisdictions may lead to cases where divergent views are reached on whether the 
Group meets the 750 million Euro threshold in Article 1.3 of the Model Legislation. This may happen when 
the jurisdiction where the UPE is a resident for tax purposes adopts the approach described in option 1, 
while one  or more jurisdictions where the Constituents Entities  are resident  for  tax purposes adopt the 
approaches described in options 2 or 3. In those cases, when the jurisdiction where the UPE or SPE is 
resident for tax purposes applies option 1, the jurisdiction of UPE or SPE’s residence is encouraged (but 
not  required)  to  allow  the  UPE  or  SPE  to  file  a  CbC  report  on  a  voluntary  basis  (as  there  is  no  legal 
obligation to do so) and exchange it under exchange of information mechanisms in order to avoid one or 
more Constituent Entities being subject to local filing in those jurisdictions that apply options 2 or 3 and 
where Constituent Entities of the MNE Group are resident for tax purposes. 

3.3 Can a reporting fiscal year be for a period of other than 12 months?  

Paragraph 51 of the BEPS Action 13 report recommends that all MNE Groups be required to file a CbC 
report  each  year.  Paragraph  50  recommends  that  this  should  first  be  required  for  MNE  fiscal  years 
beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and confirms that an “MNE fiscal year” refers to the MNE Group’s 
consolidated financial reporting period for financial statement purposes. The model legislation in the CbC 
reporting implementation package defines “Fiscal Year” as “an annual accounting period with respect to 
which the UPE of the MNE Group prepares its financial statements”.   

These references to a fiscal year and an annual accounting period have led to some jurisdictions and MNE 
Groups forming a view that a CbC report cannot be required where an MNE Group prepares consolidated 
financial statements for a period other than 12 months. This view is not intended and is inconsistent with 
existing guidance, which specifically contemplates that a CbC report can be required for a fiscal year of 
less than 12 months.1 

In the majority of cases, the UPE of an MNE Group will prepare consolidated financial statements for a 
period of 12 months. However, there may be cases where consolidated financial statements are prepared 
for a period that is shorter than 12 months or longer than 12 months, for example the first accounting period 
of a newly incorporated entity or upon a change in the financial reporting date of the entity. In these cases, 
subject to the exemption described in paragraph 52 of the BEPS Action 13 report, a CbC report should be 
prepared by the MNE Group for the period covered by the consolidated financial statements prepared by 
the UPE. 

3.4 Where a CbC report is prepared by a Reporting MNE with a reporting fiscal year 
which is longer or shorter than 12 months, what information should be included in Table 
1 and Table 2? 

The BEPS Action 13 report at page 32 includes general instructions on the period covered by an MNE 
group’s annual CbC report. These provide that, in general, the CbC report template should cover the fiscal 
year of the Reporting MNE. For Constituent Entities, at the discretion of the Reporting MNE, the template 
should  reflect  on  a  consistent  basis  either  (i)  information  for  the  fiscal  year  of  the  relevant  Constituent 
Entities ending on the same date as the fiscal year of the Reporting MNE or ending within the 12-month 
period preceding such date, or (ii) information for all the relevant Constituent Entities reported for the fiscal 
year  of  the  Reporting  MNE.  Where  the  Reporting  MNE  chooses  to  apply  approach  (i),  some  