st method sets a minimum fee for the guarantee (the minimum amount that 
the provider of the guarantee will be willing to accept) and does not of itself 
necessarily reflect the outcome of a bargain made at arm’s length. The arm’s 
length  amount  should  be  derived  from  a  consideration  of  the  perspectives 
(taking  into  account  options  realistically  available)  of  the  borrower  and 
guarantor.

D.2.4. Valuation of expected loss approach

10.181.  The valuation of expected loss method would estimate the value of 
a guarantee on the basis of calculating the probability of default and making 
adjustments to account for the expected recovery rate in the event of default. 
This would then be applied to the nominal amount guaranteed to arrive at a 
cost of providing the guarantee. The guarantee could then be priced based 
on an expected return on this amount of capital based on commercial pricing 
models such as the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM).

D.2.5. Capital support method

10.182.  The  capital  support  method  may  be  suitable  where  the  difference 
between  the  guarantor’s  and  borrower’s  risk  profiles  could  be  addressed 
by  introducing  more  capital  to  the  borrower’s  balance  sheet.  It  would  be 
first  necessary  to  determine  the  credit  rating  for  the  borrower  without  the 
guarantee  (but  with  implicit  support)  and  then  to  identify  the  amount  of 
additional  notional  capital  required  to  bring  the  borrower  up  to  the  credit 
rating  of  the  guarantor.  The  guarantee  could  then  be  priced  based  on  an 
expected return on this amount of capital to the extent that the expected return 
so used appropriately reflects only the results or consequences of the provision 
of the guarantee rather than the overall activities of the guarantor-enterprise.

D.3. Examples

10.183.  The following examples build on the principles discussed in Section D.8 
of Chapter I, in particular in paragraph 1.187.

D.3.1. Example 1

10.184.  Company M, the parent entity of an MNE group, maintains an AAA 
credit rating based on the strength of the MNE group’s consolidated balance 
sheet. Company D, a member of the same MNE group, has a credit rating of 
only BBB on a stand-alone basis, and needs to borrow EUR 10 million from 
an independent lender.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 441

10.185.  Assume that the accurate delineation of the actual transaction shows 
that  the  effect  of  passive  association  raises  Company  D’s  credit  standing 
from BBB to A, and that the provision of the explicit guarantee additionally 
enhances  the  credit  standing  of  Company  D  to  AAA.  Assume  further  that 
independent lenders charge an interest rate of 8% to entities with a credit rating 
of A, and of 6% to entities with a credit rating of AAA. Assume further that 
Company M charges Company D a fee of 3% for the provision of the guarantee 
so the guarantee fee more than completely offsets the benefit of Company D’s 
enhanced credit standing derived from the provision of such guarantee.

10.186.  In that situation, the analysis under Chapter I may indicate that an 
independent enterprise borrowing under the same conditions as Company D 
would not be expected to pay a guarantee fee of 3% to Company M for the 
provision  of  the  explicit  guarantee  since  Company  D  is  better  off  in  the 
absence of the guarantee.

D.3.2. Example 2

10.187.  Consider the same fact pattern as described in Example 1, but in this 
case assume that under the guidance in Section D.2, comparable uncontrolled 
transactions  can  be  identified  showing  that  the  arm’s  length  price  of  a 
comparable guarantee would be in the range of 1% to 1.5%.

10.188.  The accurate delineation of the actual transaction indicates that the 
enhancement of Company D’s credit standing from A to AAA is attributable 
to  a  deliberate  concerted  group  action,  i.e.  the  guarantee  provided  by 
Company M. Company D would be expected to be willing to pay an arm’s 
length guarantee fee to Company M for the provision of the explicit guarantee 
since Company D is better off than in the absence of the guarantee.

E. Captive insurance

E.1. Definition and rationale for a captive insurance and reinsurance

10.189.  There  are  many  ways  that  MNE  groups  may  manage  risks  within 
the  group.  For  example,  they  may  choose  to  set  aside  funds  in  reserves, 
pre-fund  potential  future  losses,  self-insure,  acquire  insurance  from  third 
parties or simply elect to retain the specific risk. In some other cases an MNE 
group may choose to consolidate certain risks through a so-called “captive” 
insurance.

10.190.  In this guidance, the term captive insurance is intended to refer to an 
insurance undertaking or entity substantially all of whose insurance business 
is  to  provide  insurance  policies  for  risks  of  entities  of  the  MNE  grou