xplanation of the reasons 
for proposing that the APA be cancelled. The taxpayer should be given an 
opportunity to respond before any final decision is taken.

E.3.3. Revising a MAP APA

83. 
The validity of the transfer pricing methodology is dependent on the 
critical  assumptions  continuing  to  apply  for  the  duration  of  the  MAP  APA. 
The MAP APA and any domestic confirmation or agreement should therefore 
require the taxpayer to notify the affected tax administrations of any changes. If, 
after evaluation by the tax administrations, it is established that there has been 
a material change in conditions noted in a critical assumption, the MAP APA 
may be revised to reflect the change. As discussed above, the MAP APA may 
also contain assumptions, which although falling short of being critical to the 
validity of the MAP APA, nevertheless warrant a review by the affected parties. 
One result of such a review may again be a revision of the MAP APA. However, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

542 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS

in many cases the terms and conditions of the MAP APA may be sufficiently 
flexible to account for the effects of such changes without the need for revision.

84. 
The  taxpayer’s  notification  to  the  tax  administrations  that  such  a 
change has taken place should be filed as soon as practicable after the change 
occurs, or the taxpayer becomes aware of the change, and in any event no 
later than the date for filing, if required, the annual report for that year or 
accounting  period.  Early  notification  is  encouraged  in  order  to  give  the 
affected parties more time to try to reach agreement on revising the MAP 
APA, thereby reducing the likelihood of cancellation.

The revised MAP APA should state the date from which the revision 
85. 
is effective and also the date on which the original MAP APA is no longer 
effective. If the date of the change can be precisely identified, then normally 
the revision should take effect from that date but if a precise date cannot be 
identified, then normally the MAP APA would be revised with effect from 
the first day of the accounting period following the one in which the change 
took place. If the tax administrations and the taxpayer cannot agree on the 
need for a revised MAP APA or how to revise the MAP APA, the MAP APA 
will be cancelled and will no longer have any further force and effect on the 
participating  taxpayers  and  tax  administrations.  The  determination  of  the 
effective date of the cancellation of the MAP APA will normally follow the 
same principles as applied to determine the date of revision.

E.4. Renewing a MAP APA

86. 
A  request  to  renew  a  MAP  APA  should  be  made  at  the  time 
prescribed by the participating tax administrations, bearing in mind the need 
for sufficient lead time for the taxpayer(s) and tax administrations to review 
and evaluate the renewal request and to reach agreement. It may be helpful 
to  commence  the  renewal  process  well  before  the  existing  MAP  APA  has 
expired.

87. 
The  format,  processing,  and  evaluation  of  the  renewal  application 
would  usually  be  similar  to  those  for  an  initial  MAP  APA  application. 
However,  the  necessary  level  of  detail  may  be  reduced  with  the  agreement 
of  the  participating  tax  administrations,  particularly  if  there  have  not  been 
material  changes  in  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the  case.  Renewal  of 
a  MAP  APA  is  not  automatic  and  depends  on  the  consent  of  all  parties 
concerned and on the taxpayer demonstrating, among other things, compliance 
with the terms and conditions of the existing MAP APA. The methodology 
and terms and conditions of the renewed MAP APA may, of course, differ 
from those of the previous MAP APA.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER V: TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION – MASTER FILE – 543

Annex I to Chapter V 

Transfer pricing documentation – Master file

The following information should be included in the master file:

Organisational structure

•  Chart illustrating the MNE group’s legal and ownership structure and 

geographical location of operating entities.

Description of MNE group’s business(es)

•  General written description of the MNE group’s business including:

Important drivers of business profit;

- 
-  A  description  of  the  supply  chain  for  the  group’s  five  largest 
products  and/or  service  offerings  by  turnover  plus  any  other 
products  and/or  services  amounting  to  more  than  5%  of  group 
turnover. The required description could take the form of a chart 
or a diagram;

-  A  list  and  brief  description  of  important  service  arrangements 
between  members  of  the  MNE  group,  other  than  research 
and  development  (R&D)  services,  including  a  description  of 
the  capabilities  of  the  principal  locations  providing  import