 been deduced from written contracts and the conduct of the 
parties. Formal conditions recognised in contracts will have been clarified 
and  supplemented  by  analysis  of  the  conduct  of  the  parties  and  the  other 
economically relevant characteristics of the transaction (see Section D.1.1). 
Where the characteristics of the transaction that are economically significant 
are  inconsistent  with  the  written  contract,  then  the  actual  transaction  will 
have been delineated in accordance with the characteristics of the transaction 
reflected in the conduct of the parties. Contractual risk assumption and actual 
conduct  with  respect  to  risk  assumption  will  have  been  examined  taking 
into  account  control  over  the  risk  (as  defined  in  paragraphs  1.65-1.68)  and 
the  financial  capacity  to  assume  risk  (as  defined  in  paragraph  1.64),  and 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 75

consequently, risks assumed under the contract may have been allocated in 
accordance with the conduct of the parties and the other facts on the basis of 
steps 4 and 5 of the process for analysing risk in a controlled transaction as 
reflected in Sections D.1.2.1.4 and D.1.2.1.5. Therefore, the analysis will have 
set out the factual substance of the commercial or financial relations between 
the parties and accurately delineated the actual transaction.

1.141.  Every  effort  should  be  made  to  determine  pricing  for  the  actual 
transaction  as  accurately  delineated  under  the  arm’s  length  principle.  The 
various  tools  and  methods  available  to  tax  administrations  and  taxpayers 
to  do  so  are  set  out  in  the  following  chapters  of  these  Guidelines.  A  tax 
administration should not disregard the actual transaction or substitute other 
transactions  for  it  unless  the  exceptional  circumstances  described  in  the 
following paragraphs 1.142-1.145 apply.

1.142.  This section sets out circumstances in which the transaction between 
the  parties  as  accurately  delineated  can  be  disregarded  for  transfer  pricing 
purposes.  Because  non-recognition  can  be  contentious  and  a  source  of 
double taxation, every effort should be made to determine the actual nature 
of the transaction and apply arm’s length pricing to the accurately delineated 
transaction,  and  to  ensure  that  non-recognition  is  not  used  simply  because 
determining an arm’s length price is difficult. Where the same transaction can 
be seen between independent parties in comparable circumstances (i.e. where 
all economically relevant characteristics are the same as those under which the 
tested transaction occurs other than that the parties are associated enterprises) 
non-recognition would not apply. Importantly, the mere fact that the transaction 
may  not  be  seen  between  independent  parties  does  not  mean  that  it  should 
not be recognised. Associated enterprises may have the ability to enter into a 
much greater variety of arrangements than can independent enterprises, and 
may  conclude  transactions  of  a  specific  nature  that  are  not  encountered,  or 
are only very rarely encountered, between independent parties, and may do so 
for sound business reasons. The transaction as accurately delineated may be 
disregarded, and if appropriate, replaced by an alternative transaction, where 
the arrangements made in relation to the transaction, viewed in their totality, 
differ from those which would have been adopted by independent enterprises 
behaving  in  a  commercially  rational  manner  in  comparable  circumstances, 
thereby  preventing  determination  of  a  price  that  would  be  acceptable  to 
both  of  the  parties  taking  into  account  their  respective  perspectives  and  the 
options realistically available to each of them at the time of entering into the 
transaction. It is also a relevant pointer to consider whether the MNE group 
as a whole is left worse off on a pre-tax basis since this may be an indicator 
that the transaction viewed in its entirety lacks the commercial rationality of 
arrangements between unrelated parties.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

76 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

1.143.  The  key  question  in  the  analysis  is  whether  the  actual  transaction 
possesses the commercial rationality of arrangements that would be agreed 
between  unrelated  parties  under  comparable  economic  circumstances, 
not  whether  the  same  transaction  can  be  observed  between  independent 
parties. The non-recognition of a transaction that possesses the commercial 
rationality of an arm’s length arrangement is not an appropriate application of 
the arm’s length principle. Restructuring of legitimate business transactions 
would  be  a  wholly  arbitrary  exercise  the  inequity  of  which  could  be 
compounded by double taxation created where the other tax admini