 enterprises. Taxpayers should be prepared 
to show that the package deal reflects appropriate transfer pricing.

A.3.2. Intentional set-offs

3.13.  An intentional set-off is one that associated enterprises incorporate 
knowingly into the terms of the controlled transactions. It occurs when one 
associated enterprise has provided a benefit to another associated enterprise 
within  the  group  that  is  balanced  to  some  degree  by  different  benefits 
received from that enterprise in return. These enterprises may indicate that 
the benefit each has received should be set off against the benefit each has 
provided as full or part payment for those benefits so that only the net gain 
or  loss  (if  any)  on  the  transactions  needs  to  be  considered  for  purposes  of 
assessing  tax  liabilities.  For  example,  an  enterprise  may  license  another 
enterprise to use a patent in return for the provision of know-how in another 
connection  and  indicate  that  the  transactions  result  in  no  profit  or  loss  to 
either  party.  Such  arrangements  may  sometimes  be  encountered  between 
independent enterprises and should be assessed in accordance with the arm’s 
length  principle  in  order  to  quantify  the  value  of  the  respective  benefits 
presented as set-offs.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

154 – CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS

3.14. 
Intentional set-offs may vary in size and complexity. Such set-offs 
may range from a simple balance of two transactions (such as a favourable 
selling  price  for  manufactured  goods  in  return  for  a  favourable  purchase 
price for the raw material used in producing the goods) to an arrangement 
for a general settlement balancing all benefits accruing to both parties over 
a  period.  Independent  enterprises  would  be  very  unlikely  to  consider  the 
latter type of arrangement unless the benefits could be sufficiently accurately 
quantified  and  the  contract  is  created  in  advance.  Otherwise,  independent 
enterprises normally would prefer to allow their receipts and disbursements 
to flow independently of each other, taking any profit or loss resulting from 
normal trading.

3.15.  Recognition of intentional set-offs does not change the fundamental 
requirement that for tax purposes the transfer prices for controlled transactions 
must be consistent with the arm’s length principle. It would be a good practice 
for  taxpayers  to  disclose  the  existence  of  set-offs  intentionally  built  into 
two  or  more  transactions  between  associated  enterprises  and  demonstrate 
(or  acknowledge  that  they  have  relevant  supporting  information  and  have 
undertaken sufficient analysis to be able to show) that, after taking account of 
the set-offs, the conditions governing the transactions are consistent with the 
arm’s length principle.

3.16. 
It may be necessary to evaluate the transactions separately to determine 
whether they each satisfy the arm’s length principle. If the transactions are to 
be analysed together, care should be taken in selecting comparable transactions 
and regard had to the discussion in paragraphs 3.9-3.12. The terms of set-offs 
relating  to  international  transactions  between  associated  enterprises  may  not 
be fully consistent with those relating to purely domestic transactions between 
independent  enterprises  because  of  the  differences  in  tax  treatment  of  the 
set-off under different national tax systems or differences in the treatment of 
the payment under a bilateral tax treaty. For example, withholding tax would 
complicate a set-off of royalties against sales receipts.

3.17.  A taxpayer may seek on examination a reduction in a transfer pricing 
adjustment based on an unintentional over-reporting of taxable income. Tax 
administrations  in  their  discretion  may  or  may  not  grant  this  request.  Tax 
administrations  may  also  consider  such  requests  in  the  context  of  mutual 
agreement procedures and corresponding adjustments (see Chapter IV).

A.3.3. Choice of the tested party

3.18.  When applying a cost plus, resale price or transactional net margin 
method as described in Chapter II, it is necessary to choose the party to the 
transaction for which a financial indicator (mark-up on costs, gross margin, 
or  net  profit  indicator)  is  tested.  The  choice  of  the  tested  party  should  be 
consistent with the functional analysis of the transaction. As a general rule, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS – 155

the tested party is the one to which a transfer pricing method can be applied 
in the most reliable manner and for which the most reliable comparables can 
be found, i.e. it will most often be the one that has the less complex functional 
analysis.

3.19. 
This can be illustrated as follows. Assume that company A manufactures 
two  types  of  products,  P1  and  P2,  that  it  sells  to  compa