justment may be 
made by a Contracting State either by recalculating the profits subject to tax 
for  the  associated  enterprise  in  that  jurisdiction  using  the  relevant  revised 
price or by letting the calculation stand and giving the associated enterprise 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

184 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

relief  against  its  own  tax  paid  in  that  State  for  the  additional  tax  charged 
to the associated enterprise by the adjusting State as a consequence of the 
revised transfer price. The former method is by far the more common among 
OECD member countries.
4.35. 
In  the  absence  of  an  arbitration  decision  arrived  at  pursuant  to  an 
arbitration procedure comparable to that provided for under paragraph 5 of 
Article  25  which  provides  for  a  corresponding  adjustment,  corresponding 
adjustments are not mandatory, mirroring the rule that tax administrations 
are not obliged to reach agreement under the mutual agreement procedure. 
Under  paragraph  2  of  Article  9,  a  tax  administration  should  make  a 
corresponding adjustment only insofar as it considers the primary adjustment 
to be justified both in principle and in amount. The non-mandatory nature of 
corresponding adjustments is necessary so that one tax administration is not 
forced to accept the consequences of an arbitrary or capricious adjustment 
by another State. It also is important to maintaining the fiscal sovereignty of 
each OECD member country.

4.36.  Once  a  tax  administration  has  agreed  to  make  a  corresponding 
adjustment  it  is  necessary  to  establish  whether  the  adjustment  is  to  be 
attributed  to  the  year  in  which  the  controlled  transactions  giving  rise  to  the 
adjustment took place or to an alternative year, such as the year in which the 
primary  adjustment  is  determined.  This  issue  also  often  raises  the  question 
of  a  taxpayer’s  entitlement  to  interest  on  the  overpayment  of  tax  in  the 
jurisdiction which has agreed to make the corresponding adjustment (discussed 
in  paragraphs  4.65-4.67).  The  first  approach  is  more  appropriate  because  it 
achieves a matching of income and expenses and better reflects the economic 
situation as it would have been if the controlled transactions had been at arm’s 
length. However, in cases involving lengthy delays between the year covered 
by  the  adjustment  and  the  year  of  its  acceptance  by  the  taxpayer  or  a  final 
court decision, the tax administration should have the flexibility to agree to 
make corresponding adjustments for the year of acceptance of or decision on 
the primary adjustment. This approach would need to rely on domestic law for 
implementation. While not ordinarily preferred, it could be appropriate as an 
equitable measure in exceptional cases to facilitate implementation and to avoid 
time limit barriers.
4.37.  Corresponding adjustments can be a very effective means of obtaining 
relief from double taxation resulting from transfer pricing adjustments. OECD 
member countries generally strive in good faith to reach agreement whenever 
the mutual agreement procedure is invoked. Through the mutual agreement 
procedure,  tax  administrations  can  address  issues  in  a  non-adversarial 
proceeding,  often  achieving  a  negotiated  settlement  in  the  interests  of  all 
parties.  It  also  allows  tax  administrations  to  take  into  account  other  taxing 
rights issues, such as withholding taxes.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 185

4.38.  At least one OECD member country has a procedure that may reduce 
the need for primary adjustments by allowing the taxpayer to report a transfer 
price for tax purposes that is, in the taxpayer’s opinion, an arm’s length price 
for a controlled transaction, even though this price differs from the amount 
actually  charged  between  the  associated  enterprises.  This  adjustment, 
sometimes known as a “compensating adjustment”, would be made before the 
tax return is filed. Compensating adjustments may facilitate the reporting of 
taxable income by taxpayers in accordance with the arm’s length principle, 
recognising  that  information  about  comparable  uncontrolled  transactions 
may not be available at the time associated enterprises establish the prices for 
their controlled transactions. Thus, for the purpose of lodging a correct tax 
return, a taxpayer would be permitted to make a compensating adjustment 
that would record the difference between the arm’s length price and the actual 
price recorded in its books and records.
4.39.  However,  compensating  adjustments  are  not  recognised  by  most 
OECD member countries, on the grounds that the tax return should reflect the 
actual transactions. If compensating adjustments are permitted (or required) in 
the jurisdiction of one associated enterprise but not permitted in the jurisdict