ve the objectives described in Section B, jurisdictions 
should  adopt  a  standardised  approach  to  transfer  pricing  documentation. 
This  section  describes  a  three-tiered  structure  consisting  of  (i)  a  master  file 
containing standardised information relevant for all MNE group members; (ii) a 
local  file  referring  specifically  to  material  transactions  of  the  local  taxpayer; 
and (iii) a Country-by-Country Report containing certain information relating 
to the global allocation of the MNE group’s income and taxes paid together with 
certain indicators of the location of economic activity within the MNE group.

5.17. 
This  approach  to  transfer  pricing  documentation  will  provide  tax 
administrations with relevant and reliable information to perform an efficient 
and  robust  transfer  pricing  risk  assessment  analysis.  It  will  also  provide  a 
platform on which the information necessary for an audit can be developed 
and  provide  taxpayers  with  a  means  and  an  incentive  to  meaningfully 
consider  and  describe  their  compliance  with  the  arm’s  length  principle  in 
material transactions.

C.1. Master file

The master file should provide an overview of the MNE group business, 
5.18. 
including the nature of its global business operations, its overall transfer pricing 
policies,  and  its  global  allocation  of  income  and  economic  activity  in  order 
to assist tax administrations in evaluating the presence of significant transfer 
pricing  risk.  In  general,  the  master  file  is  intended  to  provide  a  high-level 
overview in order to place the MNE group’s transfer pricing practices in their 
global economic, legal, financial and tax context. It is not intended to require 
exhaustive listings of minutiae (e.g. a listing of every patent owned by members 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

232 – CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION

of  the  MNE  group)  as  this  would  be  both  unnecessarily  burdensome  and 
inconsistent with the objectives of the master file. In producing the master file, 
including lists of important agreements, intangibles and transactions, taxpayers 
should use prudent business judgment in determining the appropriate level of 
detail for the information supplied, keeping in mind the objective of the master 
file to provide tax administrations a high-level overview of the MNE group’s 
global operations and policies. When the requirements of the master file can 
be  fully  satisfied  by  specific  cross-references  to  other  existing  documents, 
such cross-references, together with copies of the relevant documents, should 
be deemed to satisfy the relevant requirement. For purposes of producing the 
master file, information is considered important if its omission would affect the 
reliability of the transfer pricing outcomes.

5.19.  The  information  required  in  the  master  file  provides  a  “blueprint” 
of  the  MNE  group  and  contains  relevant  information  that  can  be  broken 
down into five categories: a) the MNE group’s organisational structure; b) a 
description of the MNE group’s business or businesses; c) the MNE group’s 
intangibles; d) the MNE group’s intercompany financial activities; and e) the 
MNE group’s financial and tax positions.

5.20.  Taxpayers should present the information in the master file for the 
MNE group as a whole. However, organisation of the information presented 
by line of business is permitted where well justified by the facts, e.g. where 
the  structure  of  the  MNE  group  is  such  that  some  significant  business 
lines operate largely independently or are recently acquired. Where line of 
business presentation is used, care should be taken to assure that centralised 
group  functions  and  transactions  between  business  lines  are  properly 
described  in  the  master  file.  Even  where  line  of  business  presentation  is 
selected,  the  entire  master  file  consisting  of  all  business  lines  should  be 
available to each jurisdiction in order to assure that an appropriate overview 
of the MNE group’s global business is provided.

5.21.  Annex I to Chapter V of these Guidelines sets out the information to 
be included in the master file.

C.2. Local file
5.22. 
In contrast to the master file, which provides a high-level overview as 
described in paragraph 5.18, the local file provides more detailed information 
relating to specific intercompany transactions. The information required in 
the local file supplements the master file and helps to meet the objective of 
assuring  that  the  taxpayer  has  complied  with  the  arm’s  length  principle  in 
its  material  transfer  pricing  positions  affecting  a  specific  jurisdiction.  The 
local  file  focuses  on  information  relevant  to  the  transfer  pricing  analysis 
related to transactions taking place between a local affiliate and associated 
enterprises  in  different  jurisdictions  and  which  are  materi