y establishing 
the  conditions  of  the  commercial  and  financial  relations  that  they  would 
expect to find between independent enterprises in comparable transactions 
under comparable circumstances.

Factors  other  than  tax  considerations  may  distort  the  conditions  of 
1.4. 
commercial and financial relations established between associated enterprises. 
For  example,  such  enterprises  may  be  subject  to  conflicting  governmental 
pressures  (in  the  domestic  as  well  as  foreign  country)  relating  to  customs 
valuations, anti-dumping duties, and exchange or price controls. In addition, 
transfer  price  distortions  may  be  caused  by  the  cash  flow  requirements  of 
enterprises  within  an  MNE  group.  An  MNE  group  that  is  publicly  held 
may feel pressure from shareholders to show high profitability at the parent 
company  level,  particularly  if  shareholder  reporting  is  not  undertaken  on 
a consolidated basis. All of these factors may affect transfer prices and the 
amount of profits accruing to associated enterprises within an MNE group.

1.5. 
It  should  not  be  assumed  that  the  conditions  established  in  the 
commercial  and  financial  relations  between  associated  enterprises  will 
invariably  deviate  from  what  the  open  market  would  demand.  Associated 
enterprises in MNEs sometimes have a considerable amount of autonomy and 
can often bargain with each other as though they were independent enterprises. 
Enterprises respond to economic situations arising from market conditions, in 
their relations with both third parties and associated enterprises. For example, 
local  managers  may  be  interested  in  establishing  good  profit  records  and 
therefore would not want to establish prices that would reduce the profits of 
their  own  companies.  Tax  administrations  should  keep  these  considerations 
in  mind  to  facilitate  efficient  allocation  of  their  resources  in  selecting  and 
conducting  transfer  pricing  examinations.  Sometimes,  it  may  occur  that  the 
relationship between the associated enterprises may influence the outcome of 
the bargaining. Therefore, evidence of hard bargaining alone is not sufficient 
to establish that the transactions are at arm’s length.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

B. Statement of the arm’s length principle

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 31

B.1.  Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax Convention

1.6. 
The authoritative statement of the arm’s length principle is found in 
paragraph 1 of Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax Convention, which forms 
the basis of bilateral tax treaties involving OECD member countries and an 
increasing number of non-member countries. Article 9 provides:

[Where] conditions are made or imposed between the two [associated] 
enterprises  in  their  commercial  or  financial  relations  which  differ 
from those which would be made between independent enterprises, 
then any profits which would, but for those condi tions, have accrued 
to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not 
so ac crued, may be included in the prof its of that enterprise and taxed 
accordingly.

By seeking to adjust profits by reference to the conditions which would 
have obtained between independent enterprises in comparable transactions and 
comparable circumstances (i.e. in “comparable uncontrolled transactions”), 
the arm’s length principle follows the approach of treating the members of 
an MNE group as operating as separate entities rather than as inseparable 
parts  of  a  single  unified  business.  Because  the  separate  entity  approach 
treats the members of an MNE group as if they were independent entities, 
attention is focused on the nature of the transactions between those members 
and on whether the conditions thereof differ from the conditions that would 
be  obtained  in  comparable  uncontrolled  transactions.  Such  an  analysis 
of  the  controlled  and  uncontrolled  transactions,  which  is  referred  to  as  a 
“comparability analysis”, is at the heart of the application of the arm’s length 
principle.  Guidance  on  the  comparability  analysis  is  found  in  Section  D 
below and in Chapter III.

1.7. 
It is important to put the issue of comparability into perspective in 
order  to  emphasise  the  need  for  an  approach  that  is  balanced  in  terms  of, 
on  the  one  hand,  its  reliability  and,  on  the  other,  the  burden  it  creates  for 
taxpayers  and  tax  administrations.  Paragraph  1  of  Article  9  of  the  OECD 
Model Tax Convention is the foundation for comparability analyses because 
it introduces the need for:

•  A  comparison  between  conditions  (including  prices,  but  not  only 
prices)  made  or  imposed  between  associated  enterprises  and  those 
which would be made between independent enterprises, in order to 
determine whether a re-writing of the accounts for the purposes of 
calculat