plified approach in cases where the 
threshold is exceeded. Such a threshold might, for example, be based on fixed 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES – 335

financial ratios of the recipient party (e.g. proportion of intra-group services 
costs  to  total  costs  or  turnover  or  pre-intra-group  service  charge  profit)  or 
be  determined  by  reference  to  a  group-wide  ratio  of  total  service  costs  to 
turnover  of  the  MNE  group  or  some  other  appropriate  measure.  Where 
such a threshold is adopted, the tax administration would not be obliged to 
accept the simplified approach if the level of low-value-adding intra-group 
service fees exceeds the threshold and may require a full functional analysis 
and  comparability  analysis  including  the  application  of  the  benefits  test  to 
specific service charges.

D.3. Documentation and reporting

7.64.  An MNE group electing for application of this simplified methodology 
shall  prepare  the  following  information  and  documentation  and  make  it 
available  upon  request  to  the  tax  administration  of  any  entity  within  the 
group either making or receiving a payment for low value-adding intra-group 
services.

•  A  description  of  the  categories  of  low  value-adding  intra-group 
services  provided;  the  identity  of  the  beneficiaries;  the  reasons 
justifying that each category of services constitute low value-adding 
intra-group  services  within  the  definition  set  out  in  Section  D.1; 
the rationale for the provision of services within the context of the 
business  of  the  MNE;  a  description  of  the  benefits  or  expected 
benefits  of  each  category  of  services;  a  description  of  the  selected 
allocation keys and the reasons justifying that such allocation keys 
produce outcomes that reasonably reflect the benefits received, and 
confirmation of the mark-up applied;

•  Written  contracts  or  agreements  for  the  provision  of  services  and 
any modifications to those contracts and agreements reflecting the 
agreement of the various members of the group to be bound by the 
allocation rules of this section. Such written contracts or agreements 
could  take  the  form  of  a  contemporaneous  document  identifying 
the entities involved, the nature of the services, and the terms and 
conditions under which the services are provided;

•  Documentation  and  calculations  showing  the  determination  of  the 
cost pool as described in Section D.2.2, and of the mark-up applied 
thereon, in particular a detailed listing of all categories and amounts 
of relevant costs, including costs of any services provided solely to 
one group member;

•  Calculations showing the application of the specified allocation keys.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

336 – CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES

D.4.  Levying of withholding tax on charges for low value-adding 

intra-group services

7.65.  The  levying  of  withholding  taxes  on  the  provision  of  low  value-
adding intra-group services can prevent the service provider recovering the 
totality of the costs incurred for rendering the services. When a profit element 
or  mark-up  is  included  in  the  charge  of  the  services,  tax  administrations 
levying withholding tax are encouraged to apply it only to the amount of that 
profit element or mark-up.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS – 337

Chapter VIII 

Cost contribution arrangements

A. Introduction

This  chapter  discusses  cost  contribution  arrangements  (CCAs) 
8.1. 
between two or more associated enterprises. The purpose of the chapter is 
to  provide  some  general  guidance  for  determining  whether  the  conditions 
established by associated enterprises for transactions covered by a CCA are 
consistent  with  the  arm’s  length  principle.  The  analysis  of  the  structure  of 
such arrangements should be informed by the provisions of this chapter and 
other  provisions  of  these  Guidelines  and  should  be  based  on  an  adequate 
documentation of the arrangement.

Section B provides a general definition and overview of the concept 
8.2. 
of  CCAs,  and  Section  C  gives  guidance  as  to  the  application  of  the 
arm’s  length  principle  to  CCAs.  Section  C  includes  guidance  on  how  to 
measure  contributions  to  a  CCA,  whether  balancing  payments  are  needed 
(i.e.  payments  between  participants  to  adjust  their  proportionate  shares  of 
contributions), and guidance on how contributions and balancing payments 
should  be  treated  for  tax  purposes.  It  also  addresses  the  determination  of 
participants  in  the  CCA  and  issues  related  to  the  entry  or  withdrawal  of 
participants,  and  the  termination  of  CCAs.  Finally,  Section  D  discusses 
suggestions for structuring and documenting CCAs.

B. Concept of a CCA

B.1. In general