d with regard to one or more issues, it is clearly the case 

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

14 –  ChAPTER v OF ThE TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES ON DOCUMENTATION

that  the  tax  administration  must  have  the  ability  to  obtain,  within  a  reasonable  period, 
all of the relevant documents and information in the taxpayer’s possession. This includes 
information  regarding  the  taxpayer’s  operations  and  functions,  relevant  information 
on  the  operations,  functions  and  financial  results  of  associated  enterprises  with  which 
the  taxpayer  has  entered  into  controlled  transactions,  information  regarding  potential 
comparables,  including  internal  comparables,  and  documents  regarding  the  operations 
and  financial  results  of  potentially  comparable  uncontrolled  transactions  and  unrelated 
parties. To the extent such information is included in the transfer pricing documentation, 
special  information  and  document  production  procedures  can  potentially  be  avoided. 
It  must  be  recognised,  however,  that  it  would  be  unduly  burdensome  and  inefficient 
for  transfer  pricing  documentation  to  attempt  to  anticipate  all  of  the  information  that 
might  possibly  be  required  for  a  full  audit.  Accordingly,  situations  will  inevitably  arise 
when tax administrations wish to obtain information not included in the documentation 
package. Thus, a tax administration’s access to information should not be limited to, or 
by,  the  documentation  package  relied  on  in  a  transfer  pricing  risk  assessment.  where  a 
jurisdiction requires particular information to be kept for transfer pricing audit purposes, 
such requirements should balance the tax administration’s need for information and the 
compliance burdens on taxpayers.

15. 
It  may  often  be  the  case  that  the  documents  and  other  information  required  for  a 
transfer pricing audit will be in the possession of members of the MNE group other than 
the  local  affiliate  under  examination.  Often  the  necessary  documents  will  be  located 
outside  the  country  whose  tax  administration  is  conducting  the  audit.  It  is  therefore 
important  that  the  tax  administration  is  able  to  obtain  directly  or  through  information 
sharing, such as exchange of information mechanisms, information that extends beyond 
the country’s borders.

C. A three-tiered approach to transfer pricing documentation

16. 
In order to achieve the objectives described in Section B, countries should adopt a 
standardised approach to transfer pricing documentation. This section describes a three-
tiered structure consisting of (i) a master file containing standardised information relevant 
for all MNE group members; (ii) a local file referring specifically to material transactions 
of the local taxpayer; and (iii) a Country-by-Country Report containing certain information 
relating to the global allocation of the MNE’s income and taxes paid together with certain 
indicators of the location of economic activity within the MNE group.

17.  This  approach  to  transfer  pricing  documentation  will  provide  tax  administrations 
with relevant and reliable information to perform an efficient and robust transfer pricing 
risk assessment analysis. It will also provide a platform on which the information necessary 
for  an  audit  can  be  developed  and  provide  taxpayers  with  a  means  and  an  incentive  to 
meaningfully  consider  and  describe  their  compliance  with  the  arm’s  length  principle  in 
material transactions.

C.1. Master file

18.  The master file should provide an overview of the MNE group business, including 
the  nature  of  its  global  business  operations,  its  overall  transfer  pricing  policies,  and  its 
global allocation of income and economic activity in order to assist tax administrations 
in evaluating the presence of significant transfer pricing risk. In general, the master file 
is intended to provide a high-level overview in order to place the MNE group’s transfer 

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

 ChAPTER v OF ThE TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES ON DOCUMENTATION – 15

pricing practices in their global economic, legal, financial and tax context. It is not intended 
to require exhaustive listings of minutiae (e.g. a listing of every patent owned by members 
of the MNE group) as this would be both unnecessarily burdensome and inconsistent with 
the objectives of the master file. In producing the master file, including lists of important 
agreements, intangibles and transactions, taxpayers should use prudent business judgment 
in  determining  the  appropriate  level  of  detail  for  the  information  supplied,  keeping  in 
mind the objective of the master file to provide tax administrations a high-level overview 
of  the  MNE’s  global  operations  and  policies.  when  