er” and “limited risk distributor”. As 
part of the restructuring, a foreign associated enterprise is established that 
acquires various intangibles from various affiliates including the taxpayer. 
Further to the restructuring, raw materials are to be acquired by the foreign 
associated enterprise, put in consignment in the premises of the taxpayer for 
manufacturing in exchange for a manufacturing fee. The stock of finished 
products will belong to the foreign associated enterprise and be acquired by 
the taxpayer for immediate re-sale to third party customers (i.e. the taxpayer 
will only purchase the finished products once it has concluded a sale with a 
customer). Under this new business model, the foreign associated enterprise 
contractually assumes the inventory risks that were previously borne by the 
taxpayer, and meets the requirements of control over the risk and financial 
capacity to assume the risk.

9.52.  Assume that in order to migrate from the pre-existing arrangement 
to the restructured one, the raw materials and finished products that are on 
the balance sheet of the taxpayer at the time the new arrangement is put in 
place are transferred to the foreign associated enterprise. The question arises 
how to determine the arm’s length transfer price for the inventories upon the 
conversion. This is an issue that can typically be encountered where there is 
a transition from one business model to another. The arm’s length principle 
applies  to  transfers  of  inventory  among  associated  enterprises  situated  in 
different  tax  jurisdictions.  The  choice  of  the  appropriate  transfer  pricing 
method  depends  upon  the  comparability  (including  functional)  analysis  of 
the parties. The functional analysis may have to cover a transition period over 
which the transfer is being implemented. For instance, in the above example:

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

376 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

•  One  possibility  could  be  to  determine  the  arm’s  length  price  for 
the raw material and finished products by reference to comparable 
uncontrolled  prices,  to  the  extent  the  comparability  factors  can  be 
met by such comparable uncontrolled prices, i.e. that the conditions 
of the uncontrolled transaction are comparable to the conditions of 
the transfer that takes place in the context of the restructuring.

•  Another possibility could be to determine the transfer price for the 
finished  products  as  the  resale  price  to  customers  minus  an  arm’s 
length remuneration for the marketing and distribution functions that 
still remain to be performed.

•  A further possibility would be to start from the manufacturing costs 
and  add  an  arm’s  length  mark-up  to  remunerate  the  manufacturer 
for  the  functions  it  performed,  assets  it  used  and  risks  it  assumed 
with respect to these inventories. There are however cases where the 
market value of the inventories is too low for a profit element to be 
added on costs at arm’s length.

9.53.  The choice of the appropriate transfer pricing method depends in part 
on which part of the transaction is the less complex and can be evaluated with 
the greater certainty (the functions performed, assets used and risks assumed 
by the manufacturer, or the marketing and sales functions that remain to be 
performed taking account of the assets to be used and risks to be assumed to 
perform these functions). See paragraphs 3.18-3.19 on the choice of the tested 
party.

9.54. 
In practice, what to do about inventory at the time of the restructuring 
would likely be taken into account by unrelated parties in agreeing the terms 
of the total deal, and inventory should be analysed as part of delineating the 
actual transactions comprising the business restructuring. A key consideration 
is how to deal with the risks inherent in the inventory, and how to avoid double 
counting – i.e. the party reducing its risks should not receive a price that takes 
into account risks it has given up, and cannot exploit. If raw materials costing 
100 now have a market price of 80 or 120, then a transfer would crystallise 
a loss or gain which could be a significant impediment to one of the parties 
to the restructuring. The matter is likely to be resolved as part of the overall 
terms  of  the  restructuring  and  should  be  analysed  accordingly.  In  practice 
there may be a transition period where inventory is run down before starting 
the  new  arrangements,  and  thus  avoiding  transfer  of  inventory,  particularly 
when there may be several complications beyond transfer pricing involved in 
transferring legal ownership of inventory cross-border.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 377

E.2. Intangibles

9.55.  Transfers  of  intangibles  or  rights  in  intangibles  raise  difficult 
questions  both  as  to  the  identification  of  the  intangibles  transferred  and