d a separate contract research agreement with Company S. 
Pursuant to these agreements, Company T contractually agrees to bear the 
financial risk associated with possible failure of future R&D projects, agrees 
to assume the cost of all future R&D activity, and agrees to pay Shuyona and 
Company S a service fee based on the cost of the R&D activities undertaken 
plus a mark-up equivalent to the profit mark-up over cost earned by certain 
identified independent companies engaged in providing research services.

57. 
Company  T  has  no  technical  personnel  capable  of  conducting  or 
supervising the research activities. Shuyona continues to develop and design 
the  R&D  programme  related  to  further  development  of  the  transferred 
intangibles, to establish its own R&D budgets, to determine its own levels of 
R&D staffing, and to make decisions regarding whether to pursue or terminate 
particular R&D projects. Moreover, Shuyona continues to supervise and control 
the R&D activities in Company S in the manner described in Example 14.

58. 
The transfer pricing analysis begins by identifying the commercial or 
financial relations between the parties and the conditions and economically 
relevant circumstances attaching to those relations in order that the controlled 
transaction  is  accurately  delineated  under  the  principles  of  Chapter  I, 
Section D.1. Key assumptions in this example are that Company T functions 
as a manufacturer and performs no activities in relation to the acquisition, 
development or exploitation of the intangibles and does not control risks in 
relation to the acquisition of the intangibles or to their further development. 
Instead, all development activities and risk management functions relating 
to the intangibles are performed by Shuyona and Company S, with Shuyona 
controlling  the  risk.  A  thorough  examination  of  the  transaction  indicates 
that  it  should  accurately  be  delineated  as  the  provision  of  financing  by 
Company T equating to the costs of the acquired intangibles and the ongoing 
development. A key assumption in this example is that, although Company T 
contractually  assumes  the  financial  risk  and  has  the  financial  capacity  to 
assume that risk, it does not exercise control over that risk in accordance with 
the principles outlined in paragraphs 6.63 and 6.64. As a result, in addition 
to its manufacturing reward, Company T is entitled to no more than a risk-
free return for its funding activities. (For further guidance see Section D.1 of 
Chapter I, and in particular paragraph 1.103.)

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 619

Example 17

Company A is a fully integrated pharmaceutical company engaged in 
59. 
the discovery, development, production and sale of pharmaceutical preparations. 
Company A conducts its operations in Country X. In conducting its research 
activities,  Company  A  regularly  retains  independent  Contract  Research 
Organisations (CROs) to perform various R&D activities, including designing 
and  conducting  clinical  trials  with  regard  to  products  under  development  by 
Company  A.  However,  such  CROs  do  not  engage  in  the  blue  sky  research 
required  to  identify  new  pharmaceutical  compounds.  Where  Company  A 
does retain a CRO to engage in clinical research activities, research personnel 
at  Company  A  actively  participate  in  designing  the  CRO’s  research  studies, 
provide  to  the  CRO  results  and  information  derived  from  earlier  research, 
establish budgets and timelines for CRO projects, and conduct ongoing quality 
control with respect to the CRO’s activities. In such arrangements, CROs are 
paid a negotiated fee for services and do not have an ongoing interest in the 
profits derived from sales of products developed through their research.

60. 
Company  A  transfers  patents  and  related  intangibles  related  to 
Product  M,  an  early  stage  pharmaceutical  preparation  believed  to  have 
potential as a treatment for Alzheimer’s disease to Company S, a subsidiary 
of  Company  A  operating  in  Country  y  (the  transaction  relates  strictly  to 
the existing intangibles and does not include compensation for future R&D 
services of Company A). It is assumed for purposes of this example that the 
payment of Company S for the transfer of intangibles related to Product M 
is  based  on  a  valuation  of  anticipated  future  cash  flows.  Company  S  has 
no  technical  personnel  capable  of  designing,  conducting  or  supervising 
required  ongoing  research  activities  related  to  Product  M.  Company  S 
therefore  contracts  with  Company  A  to  carry  on  the  research  programme 
related to Product M in the same manner as before the transfer of intangibles 
to  Company  S.  Company  S  agrees  to  fund  all  of  the  ongoing  Product  M 
research, assume the financial risk of potential failur