 discretionary adjustment).

Some  civil  penalties  are  directed  towards  procedural  compliance, 
4.21. 
such as timely filing of returns and information reporting. The amount of such 
penalties is often small and based on a fixed amount that may be assessed for 
each day in which, e.g. the failure to file continues. The more significant civil 
penalties are those directed at the understatement of tax liability.

4.22.  Although  some  jurisdictions  may  refer  to  a  “penalty”,  the  same  or 
similar  imposition  by  another  jurisdiction  may  be  classified  as  “interest”. 
Penalty regimes in some jurisdictions may therefore include an “additional 
tax”, or “interest”, for understatements which result in late payments of tax 
beyond the due date. This is often designed to ensure the revenue recovers at 
least the real time value of money (taxes) lost.

4.23.  Civil monetary penalties for tax understatement are frequently triggered 
by one or more of the following: an understatement of tax liability exceeding 
a  threshold  amount,  negligence  of  the  taxpayer,  or  wilful  intent  to  evade 
tax (and also fraud, although fraud can trigger much more serious criminal 
penalties). Many OECD member countries impose civil monetary penalties 
for negligence or wilful intent, while only a few countries penalise “no-fault” 
understatements of tax liability.

4.24. 
It  is  difficult  to  evaluate  in  the  abstract  whether  the  amount  of  a  civil 
monetary penalty is excessive. Among OECD member countries, civil monetary 
penalties  for  tax  understatement  are  frequently  calculated  as  a  percentage  of 
the  tax  understatement,  where  the  percentage  most  often  ranges  from  10%  to 
200%. In most OECD member countries, the rate of the penalty increases as the 
conditions for imposing the penalty increase. For instance, the higher rate penalties 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

180 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

often can be imposed only by showing a high degree of taxpayer culpability, such 
as a wilful intent to evade. “No-fault” penalties, where used, tend to be at lower 
rates than those triggered by taxpayer culpability (see paragraph 4.28).

4.25. 
Improved compliance in the transfer pricing area is of some concern to 
OECD member countries and the appropriate use of penalties may play a role 
in addressing this concern. However, owing to the nature of transfer pricing 
problems, care should be taken to ensure that the administration of a penalty 
system as applied in such cases is fair and not unduly onerous for taxpayers.

4.26.  Because cross-border transfer pricing issues implicate the tax base 
of two jurisdictions, an overly harsh penalty system in one jurisdiction may 
give taxpayers an incentive to overstate taxable income in that jurisdiction 
contrary to Article 9. If this happens, the penalty system fails in its primary 
objective to promote compliance and instead leads to non-compliance of a 
different sort – non-compliance with the arm’s length principle and under-
reporting  in  the  other  jurisdiction.  Each  OECD  member  country  should 
ensure  that  its  transfer  pricing  compliance  practices  are  not  enforced  in  a 
manner inconsistent with the objectives of the OECD Model Tax Convention, 
avoiding the distortions noted above.

4.27. 
It is generally regarded by OECD member countries that the fairness 
of  the  penalty  system  should  be  considered  by  reference  to  whether  the 
penalties  are  proportionate  to  the  offence.  This  would  mean,  for  example, 
that the severity of a penalty would be balanced against the conditions under 
which it would be imposed, and that the harsher the penalty the more limited 
the conditions in which it would apply.

4.28.  Since penalties are only one of many administrative and procedural 
aspects  of  a  tax  system,  it  is  difficult  to  conclude  whether  a  particular 
penalty is fair or not without considering the other aspects of the tax system. 
Nonetheless, OECD member countries agree that the following conclusions 
can be drawn regardless of the other aspects of the tax system in place in a 
particular jurisdiction. First, imposition of a sizable “no-fault” penalty based 
on  the  mere  existence  of  an  understatement  of  a  certain  amount  would  be 
unduly harsh when it is attributable to good faith error rather than negligence 
or an actual intent to avoid tax. Second, it would be unfair to impose sizable 
penalties on taxpayers that made a reasonable effort in good faith to set the 
terms of their transactions with associated enterprises in a manner consistent 
with  the  arm’s  length  principle.  In  particular,  it  would  be  inappropriate  to 
impose a transfer pricing penalty on a taxpayer for failing to consider data to 
which it did not have access, or for failure to apply a transfer pricing method 
that  would  have  required  data  that  was  not  available 