D 2022

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONyMS – 17

Abbreviations and acronyms

APA
BEPS
CCA
CbC
CFC
CUP
DTC
G20
HTVI
MAP
MAP APA

MNE
MOU
OECD

Report on 
BEPS Action 14
R&D
TIEA
TNMM

Advance price arrangements
Base erosion and profit shifting
Cost contribution arrangement
Country-by-Country
Controlled foreign company
Comparable uncontrolled price
Double taxation convention
Group of twenty
Hard-to-value intangibles
Mutual agreement procedure
Advance pricing arrangement under the mutual 
agreement procedure
Multinational enterprise
Memorandum of understanding
Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and 
Development
2015 BEPS Report on Action 14 Making Dispute 
Resolution Mechanisms More Effective
Research and development
Tax Information Exchange Agreement
Transactional net margin method

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

GLOSSARy – 19

Glossary

Advance pricing arrangement (APA)

An arrangement that determines, in advance of controlled transactions, 
an  appropriate  set  of  criteria  (e.g.  method,  comparables  and  appropriate 
adjustments  thereto,  critical  assumptions  as  to  future  events)  for  the 
determination  of  the  transfer  pricing  for  those  transactions  over  a  fixed 
period of time. An advance pricing arrangement may be unilateral involving 
one tax administration and a taxpayer or multilateral involving the agreement 
of two or more tax administrations.

Arm’s length principle

The  international  standard  that  OECD  member  countries  have  agreed 
should  be  used  for  determining  transfer  prices  for  tax  purposes.  It  is  set 
forth  in  Article  9  of  the  OECD  Model  Tax  Convention  as  follows:  where 
“conditions  are  made  or  imposed  between  the  two  enterprises  in  their 
commercial or financial relations which differ from those which would be 
made  between  independent  enterprises,  then  any  profits  which  would,  but 
for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of 
those conditions, have not so accrued, may be included in the profits of that 
enterprise and taxed accordingly”.

Arm’s length range

A  range  of  figures  that  are  acceptable  for  establishing  whether  the 
conditions of a controlled transaction are arm’s length and that are derived 
either from applying the same transfer pricing method to multiple comparable 
data or from applying different transfer pricing methods.

Associated enterprises

Two enterprises are associated enterprises with respect to each other if 
one of the enterprises meets the conditions of Article 9, sub-paragraphs 1a) or 
1b) of the OECD Model Tax Convention with respect to the other enterprise.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

20 – GLOSSARy

Balancing payment

A payment, normally from one or more participants to another, to adjust 
participants’ proportionate shares of contributions, that increases the value of 
the contributions of the payer and decreases the value of the contributions of 
the payee by the amount of the payment.

Buy-in payment

A payment made by a new entrant to an already active CCA for obtaining 

an interest in any results of prior CCA activity.

Buy-out payment

Compensation that a participant who withdraws from an already active 
CCA may receive from the remaining participants for an effective transfer of 
its interests in the results of past CCA activities.

Comparability analysis

A  comparison  of  a  controlled  transaction  with  an  uncontrolled 
transaction  or  transactions.  Controlled  and  uncontrolled  transactions  are 
comparable  if  none  of  the  differences  between  the  transactions  could 
materially affect the factor being examined in the methodology (e.g. price or 
margin), or if reasonably accurate adjustments can be made to eliminate the 
material effects of any such differences.

Comparable uncontrolled transaction

A  comparable  uncontrolled  transaction  is  a  transaction  between  two 
independent  parties  that  is  comparable  to  the  controlled  transaction  under 
examination. It can be either a comparable transaction between one party to 
the controlled transaction and an independent party (“internal comparable”) 
or  between  two  independent  parties,  neither  of  which  is  a  party  to  the 
controlled transaction (“external comparable”).

Comparable uncontrolled price (CUP) method

A  transfer  pricing  method  that  compares  the  price  for  property  or 
services  transferred  in  a  controlled  transaction  to  the  price  charged  for 
property or services transferred in a comparable uncontrolled transaction in 
comparable circumstances.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

GLOSSARy – 21

Compensating adjustment

An  adjustment  in  which  the  taxpayer  reports  a  transfer  price  for  tax 
purposes  that  is,  in  the  taxpayer’s  opinion,  an  arm’s  length  price  for  a 
controlled  transaction,  even  though  this  price  differs  from  the  amount 
actually char