p  to 
which it belongs.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

442 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

10.191.  In  contrast,  in  this  guidance  the  term  reinsurance  refers  to  a 
reinsurance  undertaking  or  entity  the  purpose  of  which  is  to  provide 
reinsurance policies for risks of unrelated parties that are in the first instance 
insured by entities of the MNE group to which it belongs.5 (The situation in 
which risks of entities within an MNE group are insured in the first instance 
by an unrelated party but then reinsured by an entity within the MNE group 
is discussed in Section E.2.4).
10.192.  Captive insurances may be subject to regulation in the same way as 
other  insurance  and  reinsurance  companies.6  The  precise  requirements  of 
insurance regulation will vary from one jurisdiction to the next but typically 
include  certain  actuarial,  accounting  and  capital  requirements.  While 
insurance  regulation  is  intended  to  protect  policyholders,  local  regulators 
may impose a lighter regulatory regime where the captive insurance provides 
insurance exclusively to members of the MNE group.
10.193.  There are multiple reasons for an MNE group to use a captive insurance 
such as: to stabilise premiums paid by entities within the MNE group; to benefit 
from  tax  and  regulatory  arbitrage;  gaining  access  to  reinsurance  markets; 
mitigating  the  volatility  of  market  capacity;  or  because  the  MNE  group 
considers that retaining the risk within the group is more cost effective.
10.194.  Another  possible  reason  for  the  use  of  a  captive  insurance  by  an 
MNE  group  in  addition  to  those  listed  is  the  difficulty  or  impossibility  of 
getting  insurance  coverage  for  certain  risks.  Where  such  risks  are  insured 
by  a  captive  insurance  this  may  raise  questions  as  to  whether  an  arm’s 
length  price  can  be  determined  and  the  commercial  rationality  of  such  an 
arrangement (see Section D.2 of Chapter I).

E.2. Accurate delineation of captive insurance and reinsurance

10.195.  The  principles  of  accurate  delineation  of  the  actual  transactions  and 
allocation  of  risk  detailed  in  Chapter  I  of  these  Guidelines  apply  to  captive 
insurance and reinsurance in the same manner that they apply to any other intra-
group transactions. However, this section addresses mainly captive insurance (as 
well as captive reinsurance-fronting). In particular, it should be borne in mind that:
the  carrying  on  of  risk  mitigation  functions  falls  within  the  wider 
concept of risk management but not within that of control of risk (see 
paragraphs 1.61 and 1.65);

• 

5. 

6. 

For this section, insurance and reinsurance undertakings are defined by reference 
to insurance and reinsurance business as described in Part IV of the Report on the 
Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments. This description, which covers 
the  general  scheme  of  insurance,  is  not  intended  to  exclude  from  this  guidance 
risks which the insured has some ability to influence, such as product liability risk.
See paragraph 10.3.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 443

• 

there  is  a  difference  between  the  specific  risk  being  insured  (the 
party taking the decision to insure – i.e. mitigate – or not, controls 
this risk; that party will usually be the insured but may be another 
entity within the MNE group) and the risk taken on by the insurer in 
providing insurance to the insured party.

10.196.  Although the quantum of the risk reward for the insured party and 
the insurer might be dependent upon exactly the same events in both cases, 
that quantum could be significantly different (for example, if the insured risk 
materialises and a claim is made, the insured party could potentially receive 
significant upside relative to the premium paid whereas the insurer’s income 
will  be  limited  to  the  insurance  premiums  and  investment  income  it  has 
received  regardless  of  the  quantum  of  risk  reward  received  by  the  insured 
party).

10.197.  The insurer is carrying out a risk mitigation function in respect of 
the insured party’s risk but not actually assuming that risk. It is assuming 
the risk of insuring (i.e. mitigating) the insured party’s risk. That risk will 
be  controlled  by  either  the  insurer  or  (more  likely  in  a  captive  insurance 
scenario)  another  entity  within  the  MNE  group  that  makes  the  decision 
that the risk should be assumed by the insurer. (See paragraph 10.223). The 
insurer (or other entity) can make decisions as to how to respond to this risk – 
in accordance with paragraph 1.61 (ii) – by, for example, further diversifying 
its portfolio of insured risks or by reinsuring.

10.198.  Captive  insurances  may  be  self-managed  from  within  the  MNE 
group,  or  managed  by  an  unrelated  service  provider  (of