ithin the cash pooling arrangement compared to the rates that they 
would expect to obtain from borrowing or depositing cash outside of the pool. 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

432 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

However, it is important to note that cash pool members might be willing to 
participate in cash pool arrangements to access benefits from the membership 
of the cash pool other than an enhanced interest rate like, for instance, access 
to a permanent source of financing; reduced exposure to external banks; or 
access to liquidity that may not be available otherwise.

C.2.3.3. Cash pooling guarantees
10.147.  As part of the cash pooling arrangement, cross-guarantees and rights 
of set-off between participants in the cash pool may be required. This raises 
the  question  of  whether  guarantee  fees  should  be  payable.  It  will  always 
be  appropriate  to  consider  the  particular  facts  and  circumstances  in  any 
situation but there are certain factors which are likely to be common to many 
cash pools: there will be numerous members of the pool, there may be both 
entities with debit positions and entities with credit positions in the pool, each 
pool member may have a different stand-alone credit rating, and the pooling 
agreement with the bank is likely to require full cross-guarantees and rights 
of set-off between all pool participants.

10.148.  These  cross-guarantees  and  set-off  rights  are  a  feature  of  an 
arrangement  which  would  not  occur  between  independent  parties.  Each 
guarantor is providing a guarantee for all members of the pool but will not 
have control over membership of the pool, has no control over the quantum of 
the debt which it is guaranteeing, and may not be able to access information on 
the parties for whom it is providing a guarantee. With other parties providing 
guarantees  on  the  same  loans,  it  may  not  be  possible  for  the  guarantor  to 
evaluate  its  real  risk  in  the  event  of  a  default.  Thus,  the  practical  result  of 
the  cross-guaranteeing  arrangement  is  such  that  the  formal  guarantee  may 
represent nothing more than an acknowledgement that it would be detrimental 
to  the  interests  of  the  MNE  group  not  to  support  the  performance  of  the 
cash pool leader and so, by extension, the borrower. In such circumstances 
the  guaranteed  borrower  may  not  be  benefitting  beyond  the  level  of  credit 
enhancement  attributable  to  the  implicit  support  of  other  group  members. 
If  the  prevailing  facts  and  circumstances  support  such  a  conclusion,  no 
guarantee fee would be due, and any support, in case of a default from another 
group member, should be regarded as a capital contribution.

C.3. Hedging

10.149.  Intra-group  financial  transactions  may  include  instruments  by 
which  risk  is  transferred  within  the  MNE  group.  For  example,  hedging 
arrangements are frequently used, in the ordinary course of business, as a 
means of mitigating exposure to risks such as foreign exchange or commodity 
price  movements.  An  independent  entity  may  decide  to  assume  such  risks 
or hedge against them according to its own policies. However, in an MNE 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 433

group, such risks might be treated differently depending on the MNE group’s 
approach to risk management and hedging.

10.150.  Often  an  MNE  group  will  centralise  treasury  functions  and 
implement  risk  mitigation  strategies  relating  to  interest  rate  and  currency 
risks  in  order  to  improve  efficiency  and  effectiveness  with  the  result  that 
individual  entities  may  not  contractually  enter  into  hedging  arrangements 
although their risk is hedged from the perspective of the MNE as a whole.

10.151.  Possible  mechanisms  by  which  an  MNE  group  may  centralise  the 
hedging of risk include:

• 

• 

• 

delegation of responsibility for hedging to an MNE group treasury 
entity, with the hedging contracts arranged for and in the name of the 
relevant operating companies;

delegation of responsibility for hedging to an MNE group treasury 
entity,  with  the  hedging  contracts  made  by  and  in  the  name  of 
another MNE group entity;

identification  of  the  existence  of  natural  hedges  within  the  MNE 
group, in which case no formal hedging contracts are made.

10.152.  Where the centralised treasury function arranges a hedging contract 
that  the  operating  entity  enters  into,  that  centralised  function  can  be  seen 
as  providing  a  service  to  the  operating  entity,  for  which  it  should  receive 
compensation on arm’s length terms.

10.153.  More  difficult  transfer  pricing  issues  may  arise,  however,  if  the 
contract  instrument  is  entered  into  by  the  treasury  entity  or  another  MNE 
group  entity,  with  the  result  that  the  positions  are  not  matche