is for administrative simplicity (as in Example 1 
in Annex I to Chapter VI), or whether the restructuring changes the identity 
of the parties performing or controlling functions related to the development, 
enhancement, maintenance, protection, and exploitation of intangibles.

9.59.  The arm’s length principle requires an evaluation of the conditions 
made  or  imposed  between  associated  enterprises,  at  the  level  of  each  of 
them. The fact that centralisation of legal ownership of intangibles may be 
motivated by sound commercial reasons at the level of the MNE group does 
not  answer  the  question  whether  the  conditions  of  the  transfer  are  arm’s 
length from the perspectives of both the transferor and the transferee.

9.60.  Also  in  the  case  where  a  local  operation  disposes  of  the  legal 
ownership of its intangibles to a foreign associated enterprise and continues 
to use the intangibles further to the disposal, but does so in a different legal 
capacity (e.g. as a licensee), the conditions of the transfer should be assessed 
from both the transferor’s and the transferee’s perspectives. The determination 
of  an  arm’s  length  remuneration  for  the  subsequent  ownership,  control  and 
exploitation  of  the  transferred  intangible  should  take  account  of  the  extent 
of  the  functions  performed,  assets  used  and  risks  assumed  by  the  parties 
in  relation  to  the  intangible  transferred,  and  in  particular  analysing  control 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 379

of  risks  and  control  of  functions  performed  relating  to  the  development, 
enhancement, maintenance, protection, or exploitation of the intangibles.

9.61.  Where  the  business  restructuring  provides  for  a  transfer  of  an 
intangible  followed  by  a  new  arrangement  whereby  the  transferor  will 
continue  to  use  the  intangible  transferred,  the  entirety  of  the  commercial 
arrangement between the parties should be examined in order to accurately 
delineate  the  transaction.  If  an  independent  party  were  to  transfer  an  asset 
that it intends to continue exploiting, it would be prudent for it to negotiate the 
conditions of such a future use (e.g. in a license agreement) concomitantly with 
the conditions of the transfer. In effect, there will generally be a relationship 
between the determination of an arm’s length compensation for the transfer, 
the determination of an arm’s length compensation for the post-restructuring 
transactions in relation to the transferred intangible, such as future licence fees 
that may be payable by the transferor to be able to continue using the asset, 
and the expected future profitability of the transferor from its future use of 
the asset. For instance, in an arrangement whereby a patent is transferred for 
a price of 100 in year N and a licence agreement is concomitantly concluded 
according to which the transferor will continue to use the patent transferred 
in exchange for a royalty of 100 per year over a 10-year period, it is likely 
that at least one of the two prices is not arm’s length or that the arrangement 
should be delineated as something other than a sale and concomitant license 
back. In some circumstances, the accurate delineation of the transaction might 
conclude that the arrangements reflect the provision of financing, as illustrated 
in Example 16 in Annex I to Chapter VI.

E.2.2.  Intangible transferred at a point in time when its valuation is 

highly uncertain

9.62.  Difficulties can arise in the context of business restructuring where 
the  valuation  of  an  intangible  or  rights  in  an  intangible  at  the  time  of  the 
transaction is highly uncertain. In these cases, the question arises as to how 
arm’s length pricing should be determined. The question should be resolved, 
both by taxpayers and tax administrations, by reference to what independent 
enterprises would have done in comparable circumstances to take account of 
the valuation uncertainty in the pricing of the transaction. To this aim, the 
guidance in Section D.3 of Chapter VI is relevant.

9.63. 
In  addition,  where  the  intangible  being  transferred  as  a  result  of 
the  restructuring  meets  the  criteria  for  being  considered  a  hard-to  value-
intangible in paragraph 6.189, then the guidance in Section D.4 of Chapter VI 
is applicable.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

380 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

E.2.3. Local intangibles

9.64.  Where  a  local  full-fledged  operation  is  converted  into  an  operation 
assuming limited risk, using limited intangibles and receiving low remuneration, 
the  questions  arise  of  whether  this  conversion  entails  the  transfer  by  the 
restructured local entity to a foreign associated enterprise of valuable intangibles 
or rights in intangibles and whether there are local intangibles that remain with 
the 