a  shoe  manufacturer 
and wholesale distributor of shoes in the North-West region. Its 
wholly-owned subsidiary B, situated in Country B, is a wholesale 
distributor in the South-East region of the shoes manufactured 
by A. As part of its operations, A routinely performs a credit risk 
analysis on its customers on the basis of reports purchased from 
a credit reporting agency. A performs, on behalf of B, the same 
credit risk analysis with respect to B’s customers, using the same 
methods and approaches. Under the facts and circumstances, it 
could be reasonably concluded that the service A performs for B 
is a low value-adding intra-group service.

b)  Company X is a subsidiary of a worldwide investment banking 
group.  Company  X  performs  credit  risk  analysis  with  respect 
to  potential  counterparties  for  transactions  involving  financial 
derivatives contracts and prepares credit reports for the worldwide 
investment  banking  group.  The  credit  analyses  performed  by 
Company X are utilised by the group in establishing the prices 
of financial derivatives for the group’s clients. The personnel of 
Company  X  have  developed  special  expertise  and  make  use  of 
internally  developed,  confidential  credit  risk  analysis  models, 
algorithms  and  software.  Under  the  facts  and  circumstances  of 
this case, it could not be concluded that the service Company X 
performs  for  the  worldwide  investment  banking  group  is  a  low 
value-adding intra-group service.

7.51.  The definition of low value-adding intra-group services refers to the 
supportive  nature  of  such  services,  which  are  not  part  of  the  core  business 
of the MNE group. The provision of low value-adding intra-group services 
may, in fact, be the principal business activity of the legal entity providing 
the service, e.g. a shared service centre, provided these services do not relate 
to  the  core  business  of  the  group.  As  an  example,  assume  that  an  MNE  is 
engaged in the development, production, sale and marketing of dairy products 
worldwide. The group established a shared services company, the only activity 
of which is to act as a global IT support service centre. From the perspective 
of  the  IT  support  service  provider,  the  rendering  of  the  IT  services  is  the 
company’s principal business activity. However, from the perspective of the 
service recipients, and from the perspective of the MNE group as a whole, 
the service is not a core business activity and may therefore qualify as a low 
value-adding intra-group service.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES – 331

D.2.  Simplified determination of arm’s length charges for low 

value-adding intra-group services

7.52.  This subsection sets out the elements of a simplified charge mechanism 
for low value-adding intra-group services. This simplified method is premised 
on  the  proposition  that  all  low  value-adding  service  costs  incurred  in 
supporting  the  business  of  MNE  group  members  should  be  allocated  to 
those members. The basic benefits of using the simplified approach include: 
(1)  reducing  the  compliance  effort  of  meeting  the  benefits  test  and  in 
demonstrating arm’s length charges; (2) providing greater certainty for MNE 
groups  that  the  price  charged  for  the  qualifying  activities  will  be  accepted 
by  the  tax  administrations  that  have  adopted  the  simplified  approach  when 
the conditions of the simplified approach mentioned in paragraph 7.45 have 
been met; and (3) providing tax administrations with targeted documentation 
enabling  efficient  review  of  compliance  risks.  An  MNE  group  electing 
to  adopt  this  simplified  method  would  as  far  as  practicable  apply  it  on  a 
consistent, group wide basis in all jurisdictions in which it operates.

7.53.  Where a tax administration has not adopted the simplified approach, 
and as a consequence the MNE group complies with the local requirements in 
that jurisdiction, such compliance would not disqualify the MNE group from 
the application of the simplified approach to other jurisdictions. In addition, 
not all MNE groups are vertically integrated and may instead have regional 
or divisional sub-groups with their own management and support structures. 
Therefore,  MNE  groups  may  elect  to  adopt  the  simplified  method  at  the 
level of a sub-holding company and apply it on a consistent basis across all 
subsidiaries  of  that  sub-holding  company.  When  the  MNE  group  elects  for 
and applies the simplified approach, charges for low value-adding intra-group 
services that are or have been determined in conformity with the guidance 
in this subsection are determined to be in accordance with the arm’s length 
principle. A possible alternative approach for dealing with the issues discussed 
in this subsection would be the use of cost contribution arrangements, co