ng book value 
could possibly distort the comparison, e.g. between those enterprises that have 
depreciated their assets and those that have more recent assets with on-going 
depreciation, and between enterprises that use acquired intangibles and others 
that use self-developed intangibles. Using market value could possibly alleviate 
this concern, although it can raise other reliability issues where valuation of 
assets is uncertain and can also prove to be extremely costly and burdensome, 
especially for intangible assets. Depending on the facts and circumstances of 
the case, it may be possible to perform adjustments to improve the reliability of 
the comparison. The choice between book value, adjusted book value, market 
value  and  other  possibly  available  options  should  be  made  with  a  view  to 
finding the most reliable measure, taking account of the size and complexity of 
the transaction and of the costs and burden involved, see Chapter III, Section C.

B.3.4.4. Other possible net profit indicators

2.105.  Other  net  profit  indicators  may  be  appropriate  depending  on  the 
facts and circumstances of the transactions. For instance, depending on the 
industry and on the controlled transaction under review, it may be useful to 
look at other denominators where independent data may exist, such as: floor 
area of retail points, weight of products transported, number of employees, 
time, distance, etc. While there is no reason to rule out the use of such bases 
where they provide a reasonable indication of the value added by the tested 
party  to  the  controlled  transaction,  they  should  only  be  used  where  it  is 
possible to obtain reliable comparable information to support the application 
of the method with such a net profit indicator.

B.3.5. Berry ratios

2.106.  “Berry  ratios”  are  defined  as  ratios  of  gross  profit  to  operating 
expenses.  Interest  and  extraneous  income  are  generally  excluded  from  the 
gross profit determination; depreciation and amortisation may or may not be 
included in the operating expenses, depending in particular on the possible 
uncertainties they can create in relation to valuation and comparability.

2.107.  The selection of the appropriate financial indicator depends on the 
facts  and  circumstances  of  the  case,  see  paragraph  2.82.  Concerns  have 
been  expressed  that  Berry  ratios  are  sometimes  used  in  cases  where  they 
are  not  appropriate  without  the  caution  that  is  necessary  in  the  selection 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

126 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

and  determination  of  any  transfer  pricing  method  and  financial  indicator. 
See paragraph 2.98 in relation to the use of cost-based indicators in general. 
One common difficulty in the determination of Berry ratios is that they are 
very  sensitive  to  classification  of  costs  as  operating  expenses  or  not,  and 
therefore  can  pose  comparability  issues.  In  addition,  the  issues  raised  in 
paragraphs 2.99-2.100 above in relation to pass-through costs equally arise 
in the application of Berry ratios. In order for a Berry ratio to be appropriate 
to  test  the  remuneration  of  a  controlled  transaction  (e.g.  consisting  in  the 
distribution of products), it is necessary that:

•  The value of the functions performed in the controlled transaction 
(taking account of assets used and risks assumed) is proportional to 
the operating expenses,

•  The value of the functions performed in the controlled transaction 
(taking account of assets used and risks assumed) is not materially 
affected  by  the  value  of  the  products  distributed,  i.e.  it  is  not 
proportional to sales, and

•  The taxpayer does not perform, in the controlled transactions, any 
other significant function (e.g. manufacturing function) that should 
be remunerated using another method or financial indicator.

2.108.  A situation where Berry ratios can prove useful is for intermediary 
activities  where  a  taxpayer  purchases  goods  from  an  associated  enterprise 
and on-sells them to other associated enterprises. In such cases, the resale 
price  method  may  not  be  applicable  given  the  absence  of  uncontrolled 
sales, and a cost plus method that would provide for a mark-up on the cost 
of  goods  sold  might  not  be  applicable  either  where  the  cost  of  goods  sold 
consists in controlled purchases. By contrast, operating expenses in the case 
of  an  intermediary  may  be  reasonably  independent  from  transfer  pricing 
formulation,  unless  they  are  materially  affected  by  controlled  transaction 
costs such as head office charges, rental fees or royalties paid to an associated 
enterprise, so that, depending on the facts and circumstances of the case, a 
Berry ratio may be an appropriate indicator, subject to the comments above.

B.3.6. Other guidance

2.109.  While it is not specific to the transacti