vered 
in Chapter VIII.

D.2.1.  Application of the benefits test to low value-adding intra-group 

services

7.54.  As discussed in paragraph 7.6, under the arm’s length principle an 
obligation  to  pay  for  an  intra-group  service  arises  only  where  the  benefits 
test  is  satisfied,  i.e.  the  activity  must  provide  the  group  member  expected 
to  pay  for  the  service  with  economic  or  commercial  value  to  enhance  or 
maintain its commercial position, which in turn is determined by evaluating 
whether an independent enterprise in comparable circumstances would have 
been  willing  to  pay  for  the  activity  if  performed  for  it  by  an  independent 
enterprise or would have performed the activity in-house for itself. However, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

332 – CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES

because of the nature of the low value-adding intra-group services discussed 
in this section, such determinations may be difficult or may require greater 
effort  than  the  amount  of  the  charge  warrants.  Tax  administrations  should 
therefore  generally  refrain  from  reviewing  or  challenging  the  benefits  test 
when  the  simplified  approach  has  been  applied  under  the  conditions  and 
circumstances discussed in this section and in particular in conformity with 
the documentation and reporting discussed in Section D.3 below.

7.55.  While low value-adding intra-group services may provide benefits 
to all recipients of those services, questions may arise about the extent of the 
benefits and whether independent parties would have been willing to pay for 
the  service  or  perform  it  themselves.  Where  the  MNE  group  has  followed 
the  guidance  of  the  simplified  approach  the  documentation  and  reporting 
discussed in Section D.3 below, it should provide sufficient evidence that the 
benefits test is met given the nature of low value-adding intra-group services. 
In evaluating the benefits test, tax administrations should consider benefits 
only  by  categories  of  services  and  not  on  a  specific  charge  basis.  Thus, 
the  taxpayer  need  only  demonstrate  that  assistance  was  provided  with,  for 
example, payroll processing, rather than being required to specify individual 
acts undertaken that give rise to the costs charged. Provided such information 
outlined  in  paragraph  7.64  is  made  available  to  the  tax  administration,  a 
single  annual  invoice  describing  a  category  of  services  should  suffice  to 
support the charge, and correspondence or other evidence of individual acts 
should not be required. With regard to low value-adding intra-group services 
that benefit only one recipient entity in the MNE group, it is expected that 
the benefits to the service recipient will be capable of separate demonstration.

D.2.2. Determination of cost pools

7.56.  The  initial  step  in  applying  the  simplified  approach  to  low  value-
adding intra-group services is for the MNE group to calculate, on an annual 
basis, a pool of all costs incurred by all members of the group in performing 
each  category  of  low  value-adding  intra-group  services.  The  costs  to  be 
pooled are the direct and indirect costs of rendering the service as well as, 
where relevant, the appropriate part of operating expenses (e.g. supervisory, 
general  and  administrative).  The  costs  should  be  pooled  according  to 
category of services, and should identify the accounting cost centres used in 
creating the pool. Pass-through costs in the cost pool should be identified for 
the purposes of applying paragraph 7.61. The cost pool should exclude costs 
that are attributable to an in-house activity that benefits solely the company 
performing  the  activity  (including  shareholder  activities  performed  by  the 
shareholding company).

7.57.  As a second step, the MNE group should identify and remove from 
the pool those costs that are attributable to services performed by one group 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES – 333

member solely on behalf of one other group member. In creating a pool of 
payroll  costs,  for  example,  if  group  company  A  provides  payroll  services 
solely to group company B the relevant costs should be separately identified 
and omitted from the pool. However, if group company A performs payroll 
services for itself as well as for company B, the relevant costs should remain 
within the pool.

7.58.  At this stage in the calculation, the MNE group has identified a pool 
of costs associated with categories of low value-adding services which are 
provided to multiple members of the MNE group.

D.2.3. Allocation of low value-adding service costs

7.59.  The third step in this simplified charge method for low value-adding 
intra-group service costs is to allocate among members of the group the costs 
in  the  cost  pool  that  benefit  multiple  members  of  the 