 jurisdictions in which an MNE group operates, for use in a high level transfer 
pricing risk assessment, assessment of other BEPS-related risks, and economic and statistical analysis, if 
appropriate. However, this information can only be used effectively for these purposes if the data contained 
in CbC reports prepared by MNEs is robust and accurate.  

of 

common 

the  most 

Tax administrations have encountered a number of concerns with the data in CbC reports filed to date, 
at 
and 
https://www.oecd.org/tax/beps/common-errors-mnes-cbc-reports.pdf.  MNEs  within  the  scope  of  CbC 
reporting should review these descriptions and ensure that these errors are not repeated in CbC reports 
they  are  preparing.  Where  a  tax  administration  identifies  that  a  CbC  report  filed  with  it  contains  errors 
(including but not limited to those described on the OECD website) it should require these errors to be 
corrected by the Reporting MNE. 

the  OECD  website 

described 

these 

are 

on 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
34 |   

Note 

1 Question 3.1 in section IV of this guidance permits jurisdictions to allow the Reporting Entity of an 
MNE Group with a short accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and ending before 
31 December 2016 to file the required CbC report by the same deadline as those with a fiscal year 
ending on 31 December 2016. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
  | 35 

5 Issues relating to the sharing 

mechanism for the CbC report (EOI, 
surrogate filing and local filing) 

Transitional filing options for MNEs (“parent surrogate filing”) (June 2016; 
updated July 20171) 

1.1 Can MNE Groups with an Ultimate Parent Entity resident in a jurisdiction whose CbC 
reporting legal framework is in effect for Reporting Periods later than 1 January 2016 
voluntarily file the CbC report for fiscal periods commencing on or from 1 January 2016 
in that jurisdiction? What is the impact of such filing on local filing obligations in other 
jurisdictions?  

All OECD and G20 countries, as well as others, have committed to implementing the minimum standard 
of  CbC  reporting  agreed  in  the  Action  13  Report.  The  Action 13  Report  recommended  that  countries 
implement a legal requirement for CbC reporting with respect to MNEs’ fiscal periods commencing on or 
from 1 January 2016. At the same time, the Action 13 Report recognises that “some jurisdictions may need 
time to follow their particular domestic legislative process in order to make necessary adjustments to the 
law.” Where jurisdictions are implementing CbC reporting but will not be able to implement with respect to 
the fiscal period commencing from 1 January 2016, this therefore gives rise to a transition issue. Where 
other jurisdictions introduce a local filing obligation (which is an option but not a requirement under the 
Action  13  minimum  standard)  and  do  not  otherwise  provide  any  transition  relief  to  address  this 
issue - which some countries have done recognising the differences in legislative processes as noted in 
the Report - there is a need to issue guidance as to the local filing obligations that may arise during such 
a period.  

In  such  situations,  jurisdictions  that  will  not  be  able  to  implement  with  respect  to  fiscal  periods  from 
1 January 2016 may be able to accommodate voluntary filing for UPEs resident in their jurisdiction. This 
would allow the UPE of an MNE Group resident in those jurisdictions to voluntarily file their CbC report for 
the  fiscal  periods  commencing  on  or  from  1  January  2016  in  their  jurisdiction  of  tax  residence.  This  is 
referred to as “parent surrogate filing” because it is a form of surrogate filing, the framework for which is 
set out in the Action 13 Report. As such, parent surrogate filing does not alter the timelines or the minimum 
standard, and thus ensures the integrity of the agreement reached in the Action 13 Report. 

Where surrogate filing (including parent surrogate filing) is available, it will mean that there are no local 
filing obligations for the particular MNE in any jurisdiction which otherwise would require local filing in which 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
36 |   

the  MNE  has  a  Constituent  Entity  (herein  referred  to  as  the  Local  Jurisdiction).  This  is  subject  to  the 
following conditions:  

1. 

the  UPE  has  made  available  a  CbC  report  conforming  to  the  requirements  of  the  Action  13 
Report to the tax authority of its jurisdiction of tax residence, by the filing deadline (i.e. 12 months 
after the last day of the Reporting Fiscal Year of the MNE Group); and 

2.  by the first filing deadline of the CbC report, the jurisdiction of tax residence of the UPE must 
have its