may occur, for example, where goods previously 
sold  by  Constituent  Entities  in  the  jurisdiction  have  been 
returned, or where the negative value of items presented as 
net amounts exceeds other positive revenues.  

Where  the  sum  of  profits  and  losses  of  all  Constituent 
Entities in a jurisdiction is an overall net loss, Profit (Loss) 
before Income Tax should be a negative amount.  

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
Income Tax Paid (on Cash 
Basis) 

tax, 

income 

Where Constituent Entities in a jurisdiction make an 
overall  net  payment  of 
including 
withholding taxes paid by other entities with respect 
to payments to Constituent Entities in the jurisdiction 
(i.e. where payments of income tax exceed refunds 
of income tax in the same fiscal year), Income Tax 
Paid (on Cash Basis) should be a positive amount.  

Income  Tax  Accrued  – 
Current Year 

Where,  under  the  applicable  accounting  standard, 
Constituent Entities in a jurisdiction have an accrued 
current  tax  expense  on  profits  (i.e.  an  income 
statement  debit  for  financial  reporting  purposes), 
Income  Tax  Accrued  –  Current  Year  should  be  a 
positive amount.  

  | 11 

Where Constituent Entities in a jurisdiction receive an overall 
net refund of income tax (i.e. where refunds of income tax 
exceed  payments  of  income  tax  in  the  same  fiscal  year), 
Income  Tax  Paid  (on  Cash  Basis)  should  be  a  negative 
amount.  An  exception  to  this  may  be  permitted  where  the 
refund is treated as revenue in the source of data used to 
complete Table 1.  

Where,  under 
the  applicable  accounting  standard, 
Constituent Entities in a jurisdiction have an accrued current 
tax  credit  on  profits  (i.e.  an  income  statement  credit  for 
financial reporting purposes), Income Tax Accrued – Current 
Year should  be  a negative amount. Whether this arises in 
practice will depend upon the treatment of current tax in the 
source  of  data  used.  Examples  of  when  this  could  arise 
include where Constituent Entities in a jurisdiction have net 
current year tax losses and these tax losses are realised in 
the current year: 

• 

• 
• 

• 

by payment to the Constituent Entity by the relevant tax 
administration;  
by offset against a non-income tax liability1; 
by  surrender  to  an  entity  outside  the  MNE  group  in 
return for consideration 2; 
by carry-back to an earlier tax year for offset against 
taxable profits in that year. 3 

Typically, tax losses that are carried forward and set against 
taxable  profits  in  later  tax  years  will  be  dealt  with  through 
deferred tax and not current tax. As described in the BEPS 
Action 13 report, deferred tax is not included in the Income 
Tax Accrued – Current Year column in Table 1.  

Stated Capital 

Accumulated Earnings 

Typically, Stated Capital should be a positive amount. 

Typically, Stated Capital should not be a negative amount.  

Where  the  sum  of  the  accumulated  earnings  of  all 
Constituent Entities in a jurisdiction is positive (i.e. net 
accumulated  profits),  Accumulated  Earnings  should 
be a positive amount.  

the  sum  of 

the  accumulated  earnings  of  all 
Where 
Constituent  Entities  in  a  jurisdiction  is  negative  (i.e.  net 
accumulated  losses),  Accumulated  Earnings  should  be  a 
negative amount.  

Number of Employees 

Number of Employees should be a positive amount. 

Negative  amounts  should  not  be  used  for  Number  of 
Employees.  

Tangible Assets other than 
Cash and Cash Equivalents 

Tangible  Assets  other 
Equivalents should be a positive amount.  

than  Cash  and  Cash 

Negative amounts should not be used for Tangible Assets 
other than Cash and Cash Equivalents.  

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
 
12 |   

Treatment of dividends for purposes of “profit (loss) before income tax”, 
“income tax accrued (current year)” and “income tax paid (on cash basis)” in 
Table 1 (September 2018; November 2019; May 2024 (NEW)) 

7.1 Does the profit (loss) before income tax in Table 1 include payments received from 
other Constituent Entities that are treated as dividends in the payer’s tax jurisdiction?4 
(NEW) 

While the BEPS Action 13 report is clear that dividends from other Constituent Entities are excluded from 
Revenue in completing Table 1 of a CbC report, it does not provide specific instructions as to whether or 
not dividends from other Constituent Entities are excluded from Profit (Loss) before Income Tax. In the 
absence of specific guidance on this topic, different approaches have been adopted by jurisdictions and 
by  MNEs.  This  lack  of  consistency  presents  a  challenge  to  tax  administrations  in  using  CbC  reporting 
information  for  the  high-level  assessment  of  transfer  pricing  and  other  BEPS-related  risks,  and  for 
