verall, pooled, position. In this instance, M receives surplus funds from 
MNE group members H and J and provides funds to MNE group members 
K  and  L  which  have  a  funding  need.  Interest  on  the  balances  of  the  pool 
participants is charged or paid in accordance with the pooling agreements.

10.136.  As a result of the arrangements in place, M pays less interest to the 
bank  or  receives  more  interest  than  would  have  been  the  case  absent  the 
pooling arrangements.

10.137.  A functional analysis shows that M is not subject to credit risk, which 
remains with the cash pool members, but merely performs a co-ordination 
function.  Furthermore  M  is  not  performing  the  functions  or  assuming  the 
risks that a bank would. Therefore M would not earn the kind of reward that 
a bank would earn such as retaining the interest spread between deposits and 
loans. Accordingly, M would earn a reward commensurate with the service 
functions it provides to the pool.

Example 2

10.138.  Company  T,  a  member  of  MNE  Group  y,  performs  as  the  MNE 
group  treasury  entity  and  undertakes  a  range  of  different  financial 
transactions  both  intra-group  and  externally.  Company  T’s  main  purpose 
is to provide treasury services to the other entities within the MNE group 
including strategy and management of group liquidity. T is responsible for 
raising finance across the MNE group by issuing bonds or borrowing from 
third party banks and arranges intra-group loans to meet the funding needs 
of other group members as necessary.

10.139.  As  part  of  the  group  liquidity  arrangements,  T  operates  an  MNE 
group  cash  pooling  arrangement  and  is  responsible  for  deciding  how  to 
invest surplus funds or fund any shortfall. T sets the intra-group interest rates 
and is at risk for any differences between the rates it sets with other group 
members and the rates at which it transacts with the independent lenders. T 
also bears credit risk, liquidity risk and currency risk for intra-group finance 
and decides on how or whether to hedge such risks.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 431

10.140.  The analysis under the guidance in Section D.1 of Chapter I indicates 
that  the  actual  transactions  should  be  accurately  delineated  as  intra-group 
loans in the context of the treasury activities undertaken by Company T since 
Company T is performing functions and assuming risks that go beyond the 
co-ordination role of a cash pool leader. In particular, the functional analysis 
shows that Company T controls the financial risks contractually allocated to 
it and has the financial capacity to bear those risks.

10.141.  Accordingly, T should be compensated for the functions it performs 
and the risks it assumes in accordance with the guidance in Section C.1. This 
may  include  earning  part  or  all  of  the  spread  between  the  borrowing  and 
lending positions which it adopts.

10.142.  It  should  be  borne  in  mind  that  the  other  group  members  which 
transact with T would still only do so if this left them no worse off than their 
next best option.

C.2.3.2. Rewarding the cash pool members

10.143.  The  remuneration  of  the  cash  pool  members  will  be  calculated 
through the determination of the arm’s length interest rates applicable to the 
debit and credit positions within the pool. This determination will allocate the 
synergy benefits arising from the cash pool arrangement amongst the pool 
members and it will generally be done once the remuneration of the cash pool 
leader has been calculated.

10.144.  Eventually, the remuneration of the cash pool members will depend 
upon the specific facts and circumstances and the functions, assets and risks 
of  each  of  the  pool  members.  Therefore,  this  guidance  does  not  intend  to 
provide a prescriptive approach for allocating the cash pooling benefits to the 
participating cash pool members in any given situation but rather lays down 
the principles that should guide that allocation.

10.145.  Determining  the  arm’s  length  interest  rates  for  the  cash  pool 
intra-group  transactions  may  be  a  difficult  exercise  due  to  the  lack  of 
comparable arrangements between unrelated parties. In this context, banking 
arrangements involving the cash pool leader, taking into account functional 
differences  between  the  bank  and  the  cash  pool  leader,  and  the  options 
realistically available to the cash pool members may inform the identification 
of comparable interest rates in the transfer pricing analysis.

10.146.  It is expected that all cash pool participants will be better off than 
in  the  absence  of  the  cash  pool  arrangement.  Under  prevailing  facts  and 
circumstances that could imply, for instance, that all cash pool participants 
would  benefit  from  enhanced  interest  rates  applicable  to  debit  and  credit 
position w