 of transfer 
pricing methods under the Guidelines.

6.132.  In  applying  the  principles  of  paragraphs  2.1  to  2.12  to  matters 
involving the transfer of intangibles or rights in intangibles, it is important 
to recognise that transactions structured in different ways may have similar 
economic  consequences.  For  example,  the  performance  of  a  service  using 
intangibles may have very similar economic consequences to a transaction 
involving  the  transfer  of  an  intangible  (or  the  transfer  of  rights  in  the 
intangible), as either may convey the value of the intangible to the transferee. 
Accordingly,  in  selecting  the  most  appropriate  transfer  pricing  method  in 
connection with a transaction involving the transfer of intangibles or rights 
in intangibles, it is important to consider the economic consequences of the 
transaction, rather than proceeding on the basis of an arbitrary label.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

288 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

6.133.  This chapter makes it clear that in matters involving the transfer of 
intangibles or rights in intangibles it is important not to simply assume that 
all residual profit, after a limited return to those providing functions, should 
necessarily be allocated to the owner of intangibles. The selection of the most 
appropriate transfer pricing method should be based on a functional analysis 
that provides a clear understanding of the MNE’s global business processes 
and  how  the  transferred  intangibles  interact  with  other  functions,  assets 
and risks that comprise the global business. The functional analysis should 
identify all factors that contribute to value creation, which may include risks 
borne, specific market characteristics, location, business strategies, and MNE 
group synergies among others. The transfer pricing method selected, and any 
adjustments incorporated in that method based on the comparability analysis, 
should take into account all of the relevant factors materially contributing to 
the creation of value, not only intangibles and routine functions.
6.134.  The principles set out in paragraphs 2.12, 3.58 and 3.59 regarding the 
use of more than one transfer pricing method apply to matters involving the 
transfer of intangibles or rights in intangibles.
6.135.  Paragraphs  3.9  to  3.12  and  paragraph  3.37  provide  guidance 
regarding  the  aggregation  of  separate  transactions  for  purposes  of  transfer 
pricing analysis. Those principles apply fully to cases involving the transfer 
of intangibles or rights in intangibles and are supplemented by the guidance 
in Section C of this chapter. Indeed, it is often the case that intangibles may 
be transferred in combination with other intangibles, or in combination with 
transactions involving the sale of goods or the performance of services. In 
such situations it may well be that the most reliable transfer pricing analysis 
will consider the interrelated transactions in the aggregate as necessary to 
improve the reliability of the analysis.

D.2.6.  Supplemental guidance on transfer pricing methods in matters 

involving the transfer of intangibles or rights in intangibles
6.136.  Depending  on  the  specific  facts,  any  of  the  five  OECD  transfer 
pricing methods described in Chapter II might constitute the most appropriate 
transfer  pricing  method  to  the  circumstances  of  the  case  where  the  trans-
action involves a controlled transfer of one or more intangibles. The use of 
other alternatives may also be appropriate.
6.137.  Where  the  comparability  analysis  identifies  reliable  information 
related to comparable uncontrolled transactions, the determination of arm’s 
length  prices  for  a  transfer  of  intangibles  or  rights  in  intangibles  can  be 
determined on the basis of such comparables after making any comparability 
adjustments that may be appropriate and reliable.
6.138.  However, it will often be the case in matters involving transfers of 
intangibles or rights in intangibles that the comparability analysis (including 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 289

the  functional  analysis)  reveals  that  there  are  no  reliable  comparable 
uncontrolled  transactions  that  can  be  used  to  determine  the  arm’s  length 
price  and  other  conditions.  This  can  occur  if  the  intangibles  in  question 
have  unique  characteristics,  or  if  they  are  of  such  critical  importance  that 
such  intangibles  are  transferred  only  among  associated  enterprises.  It  may 
also  result  from  a  lack  of  available  data  regarding  potentially  comparable 
transactions  or  from  other  causes.  Notwithstanding  the  lack  of  reliable 
comparables, it is usually possible to determine the arm’s length price and 
other conditions for the controlled transaction.

6.139.  Where  information  regarding  reliable  comparable  uncontrolled 
transactions cann