ther additional information not contained in Annex III, nor will it fail 
to require reporting of information included in Annex III.

Appropriate use
Jurisdictions should use appropriately the information in the Country-
5.59. 
by-Country Report template in accordance with paragraph 5.25. In particular, 
jurisdictions will commit to use the Country-by-Country Report for assessing 
high-level  transfer  pricing  risk.  Jurisdictions  may  also  use  the  Country-by-
Country Report for assessing other BEPS-related risks. Jurisdictions should 
not  propose  adjustments  to  the  income  of  any  taxpayer  on  the  basis  of  an 
income allocation formula based on the data  from the Country-by-Country 
Report. They will further commit that if such adjustments based on Country-
by-Country  Report  data  are  made  by  the  local  tax  administration  of  the 
jurisdiction,  the  jurisdiction’s  competent  authority  will  promptly  concede 
the  adjustment  in  any  relevant  competent  authority  proceeding.  This  does 
not  imply,  however,  that  jurisdictions  would  be  prevented  from  using  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

242 – CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION

Country-by-Country Report data as a basis for making further enquiries into 
the MNE group’s transfer pricing arrangements or into other tax matters in the 
course of a tax audit.1

E.2.4.  The framework for government-to-government mechanisms to 

exchange Country-by-Country Reports and implementation 
package

E.2.4.1. Framework

Jurisdictions should require in a timely manner Country-by-Country 
5.60. 
Reporting  from  ultimate  parent  entities  of  MNE  groups  resident  in  their 
jurisdiction and referred to in Section E.2.2 and exchange this information on 
an  automatic  basis  with  the  jurisdictions  in  which  the  MNE  group  operates 
and  which  fulfil  the  conditions  listed  in  Section  E.2.3.  Only  in  cases  where 
a  jurisdiction  fails  to  provide  information  to  a  jurisdiction  fulfilling  the 
conditions  listed  in  Section  E.2.3,  because  (a)  it  has  not  required  Country-
by-Country Reporting from the ultimate parent entity of such MNE groups, 
(b)  no  competent  authority  agreement  has  been  agreed  in  a  timely  manner 
under the current international agreements of the jurisdiction for the exchange 
of  the  Country-by-Country  Reports  or  (c)  it  has  been  established  that  there 
is  a  failure  to  exchange  the  information  in  practice  with  a  jurisdiction  after 
agreeing  with  that  jurisdiction  to  do  so,  a  secondary  mechanism  would  be 
accepted as appropriate, through local filing or through filing of the Country-
by-Country Reports by a designated member of the MNE group acting in place 
of  the  ultimate  parent  entity  and  automatic  exchange  of  these  reports  by  its 
jurisdiction of tax residence.

E.2.4.2. Implementation package

5.61.  Annex IV to Chapter V of these Guidelines contains an implementation 
package  for  government-to-government  exchange  of  Country-by-Country 
Reports, which includes:

1. 

Access  to  a  mutual  agreement  procedure  (MAP)  will  be  available  when  the 
government-to-government  exchange  of  the  Country-by-Country  Reports  is 
based on bilateral treaties. In cases where the international agreements on which 
the  government-to-government  exchanges  of  the  Country-by-Country  Reports 
are  based  do  not  contain  provisions  providing  access  to  MAP,  jurisdictions 
commit  to  introducing  in  the  competent  authority  agreement  to  be  developed 
a  mechanism  for  competent  authority  procedures  to  discuss  with  the  aim  of 
resolving cases of undesirable economic outcomes, including if such cases arise 
for individual businesses.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION – 243

•  Model  legislation  requiring  the  ultimate  parent  entity  of  an  MNE 
group  to  file  the  Country-by-Country  Report  in  its  jurisdiction  of 
residence.  Jurisdictions  will  be  able  to  adapt  this  model  legislation 
to their own legal systems, where changes to current legislation are 
required.  Key  elements  of  secondary  mechanisms  have  also  been 
developed.

• 

Implementing arrangements for the automatic exchange of the Country-
by-Country Reports under international agreements, incorporating the 
conditions set out in Section E.2.3. Such implementing arrangements 
include  competent  authority  agreements  (CAAs)  based  on  existing 
international  agreements  (the  Multilateral  Convention  on  Mutual 
Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, bilateral tax treaties and 
TIEAs) and inspired by the existing models developed by the OECD 
working with G20 countries for the automatic exchange of financial 
account information.

to 

Jurisdictions  endeavour 

5.62. 
introduce  as  necessary  domestic 
legislation  in  a  timely  manner.  They  are  also  encouraged  t