o  that  of  its  other  options  realistically  available,  and  a  price 
that would yield Company S a positive return to its investments and risks, 
considering the manner in which the transaction itself would be taxed.

The  facts  of  this  example  and  the  foregoing  analysis  are  obviously 
111. 
greatly oversimplified by comparison to the analysis that would be required 
in  an  actual  transaction.  The  analysis  nevertheless  reflects  the  importance 
of  considering  all  of  the  relevant  facts  and  circumstances  in  performing  a 
discounted cash flow analysis, evaluating the perspectives of each of the parties 
in  such  an  analysis,  and  taking  into  consideration  the  options  realistically 
available to each of the parties in performing the transfer pricing analysis.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER VI: HARD-TO-VALUE INTANGIBLES – 633

Annex II to Chapter VI 

Guidance for tax administrations on the application of 
the approach to hard-to-value intangibles

1. Introduction

1. 
Action  8  of  the  BEPS  Action  Plan  mandated  the  development  of 
transfer  pricing  rules  or  special  measures  for  transfers  of  hard-to-value 
intangibles aimed at preventing base erosion and profit shifting by moving 
intangibles among group members.

2. 
The  outcome  of  this  work  is  found  in  Section  D.4  of  the  Revised 
Chapter  VI  of  the  Transfer  Pricing  Guidelines,  contained  in  the  2015  Final 
Report  for  Actions  8-10,  “Aligning  Transfer  Pricing  Outcomes  with  Value 
Creation”  (BEPS  TP  Report)  and  now  formally  adopted  as  part  of  the 
Guidelines. Section D.4 addresses the treatment of hard-to-value intangibles 
(HTVI)  for  transfer  pricing  purposes.  That  Section  contains  an  “approach 
consistent with the arm’s length principle that tax administrations can adopt to 
ensure that tax administrations can determine in which situations the pricing 
arrangements  as  set  by  the  taxpayers  are  at  arm’s  length  and  are  based  on 
an appropriate weighting of the foreseeable developments or events that are 
relevant for the valuation of certain hard-to-value intangibles, and in which 
situations this is not the case” (paragraph 6.188). The HTVI approach protects 
tax  administrations  from  the  negative  effects  of  information  asymmetry 
by  ensuring  that  tax  administrations  can  consider  ex  post  outcomes  as 
presumptive  evidence  about  the  appropriateness  of  the  ex-ante  pricing 
arrangements. Under the approach, the taxpayer has the possibility to rebut 
such presumptive evidence by demonstrating the reliability of the information 
supporting  the  pricing  methodology  adopted  at  the  time  the  controlled 
transaction  took  place.  There  are  a  number  of  additional  exemptions  that, 
where the conditions governing those exemptions are met, render the approach 
inapplicable.  Importantly,  where  the  approach  applies,  a  tax  administration 
is entitled to use, in evaluating the ex ante pricing arrangements, the ex post 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
634 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER VI: HARD-TO-VALUE INTANGIBLES

evidence about financial outcomes to inform the determination of the arm’s 
length pricing arrangements that would have been made between independent 
enterprises  at  the  time  of  the  transaction  (see  paragraph  6.192).  However, 
the  ex  post  evidence  should  not  be  used  without  considering  whether  the 
information on which the ex post results are based could or should reasonably 
have been considered by the associated enterprises at the time the transaction 
was entered into (see paragraph 6.188).

3. 
The  BEPS  TP  Report  mandates  the  development  of  guidance  for 
tax  administrations  on  the  implementation  of  the  approach  to  HTVI.  This 
guidance is aimed at reaching a common understanding and practice among 
tax administrations on how to apply adjustments resulting from the application 
of  the  approach  to  HTVI.  This  guidance  should  improve  consistency  and 
reduce the risk of economic double taxation.

4. 
The  BEPS  TP  Report  also  states  that  the  practical  application  of 
the exemptions listed in paragraph 6.193 of the BEPS TP Report, including 
the  measurement  of  materiality  and  time  periods  contained  in  the  current 
exemptions, will be reviewed by 2020 in the light of further experience.

Tackling information asymmetry between the extensive information 
5. 
available to the taxpayer and the absence of information available to the tax 
administration,  other  than  what  the  taxpayer  may  present,  is  at  the  heart  of 
the reason for HTVI guidance in Section D.4 of Chapter VI of the Guidelines. 
When a HTVI is transferred, each of the parties involved in the transaction are 
likely to prepare a valuation at the time of the transaction using assumptions 
based  on  its  specialised  knowledge, 