  them 
when  they  do  arise  between  taxpayers  and  their  tax  administrations,  and 
between different tax administrations. Such disputes may arise even though 
the guidance in these Guidelines is followed in a conscientious effort to apply 
the arm’s length principle. It is possible that taxpayers and tax administrations 
may  reach  differing  determinations  of  the  arm’s  length  conditions  for  the 
controlled  transactions  under  examination  given  the  complexity  of  some 
transfer pricing issues and the difficulties in interpreting and evaluating the 
circumstances of individual cases.

4.2.  Where  two  or  more  tax  administrations  take  different  positions  in 
determining  arm’s  length  conditions,  double  taxation  may  occur.  Double 
taxation means the inclusion of the same income in the tax base by more than 
one tax administration, when either the income is in the hands of different 
taxpayers  (economic  double  taxation,  for  associated  enterprises)  or  the 
income is in the hands of the same juridical entity (juridical double taxation, 
for  permanent  establishments).  Double  taxation  is  undesirable  and  should 
be  eliminated  whenever  possible,  because  it  constitutes  a  potential  barrier 
to the development of international trade and investment flows. The double 
inclusion of income in the tax base of more than one jurisdiction does not 
always mean that the income will actually be taxed twice.

4.3. 
This chapter discusses several administrative approaches to resolving 
disputes  caused  by  transfer  pricing  adjustments  and  for  avoiding  double 
taxation.  Section  B  discusses  transfer  pricing  compliance  practices  by  tax 
administrations,  in  particular  examination  practices,  the  burden  of  proof, 
and  penalties.  Section  C  discusses  corresponding  adjustments  (Paragraph  2 
of Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax Convention) and the mutual agreement 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
174 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

procedure  (Article  25).  Section  D  describes  the  use  of  simultaneous 
tax  examinations  by  two  (or  more)  tax  administrations  to  expedite  the 
identification,  processing,  and  resolution  of  transfer  pricing  issues  (and 
other  international  tax  issues).  Sections  E  and  F  describe  some  possibilities 
for  minimising  transfer  pricing  disputes  between  taxpayers  and  their  tax 
administrations. Section E addresses the possibility of developing safe harbours 
for certain taxpayers, and Section F deals with advance pricing arrangements, 
which  address  the  possibility  of  determining  in  advance  a  transfer  pricing 
methodology  or  conditions  for  the  taxpayer  to  apply  to  specified  controlled 
transactions. Section G considers briefly the use of arbitration procedures to 
resolve transfer pricing disputes between jurisdictions.

B. Transfer pricing compliance practices

Tax  compliance  practices  are  developed  and  implemented  in  each 
4.4. 
jurisdiction  according  to  its  own  domestic  legislation  and  administrative 
procedures. Many domestic tax compliance practices have three main elements: 
a)  to  reduce  opportunities  for  non-compliance  (e.g.  through  withholding 
taxes  and  information  reporting);  b)  to  provide  positive  assistance  for 
compliance (e.g. through education and published guidance); and, c) to provide 
disincentives for non-compliance. As a matter of domestic sovereignty and to 
accommodate the particularities of widely varying tax systems, tax compliance 
practices remain within the province of each jurisdiction. Nevertheless a fair 
application  of  the  arm’s  length  principle  requires  clear  procedural  rules  to 
ensure adequate protection of the taxpayer and to make sure that tax revenue 
is  not  shifted  to  jurisdictions  with  overly  harsh  procedural  rules.  However, 
when a taxpayer under examination in one jurisdiction is a member of an MNE 
group, it is possible that the domestic tax compliance practices in a jurisdiction 
examining a taxpayer will have consequences in other tax jurisdictions. This 
may  be  particularly  the  case  when  cross-border  transfer  pricing  issues  are 
involved,  because  the  transfer  pricing  has  implications  for  the  tax  collected 
in the tax jurisdictions of the associated enterprises involved in the controlled 
transaction.  If  the  same  transfer  pricing  is  not  accepted  in  the  other  tax 
jurisdictions, the MNE group may be subject to double taxation as explained 
in paragraph 4.2. Thus, tax administrations should be conscious of the arm’s 
length  principle  when  applying  their  domestic  compliance  practices  and  the 
potential  implications  of  their  transfer  pricing  compliance  rules  for  other 
tax jurisdictions, and seek to facilitate both the equitable allocation of taxes 
between jurisdictions and the prevention of double taxa