d (traditional transaction method or transactional net margin method) 
may be applicable in cases where one of the parties makes all the unique and 
valuable contributions involved in the controlled transaction, while the other 
party does not make any unique and valuable contribution. In such a case, the 
tested party should be the less complex one. See paragraphs 3.18-3.19 for a 
discussion of the notion of tested party.

2.66.  There  are  also  many  cases  where  a  party  to  a  transaction  makes 
contributions that are not unique – e.g. uses non-unique intangibles such as 
non-unique  business  processes  or  non-unique  market  knowledge.  In  such 
cases, it may be possible to meet the comparability requirements to apply a 
traditional transaction method or a transactional net margin method because 
the  comparables  would  also  be  expected  to  use  a  comparable  mix  of  non-
unique contributions.

2.67.  Finally, the lack of unique and valuable contributions involved in a 
particular transaction does not automatically imply that the transactional net 
margin method is the most appropriate method.

B.2.  Strengths and weaknesses1

2.68.  One strength of the transactional net margin method is that net profit 
indicators (e.g. return on assets, operating income to sales, and possibly other 
measures of net profit) are less affected by transactional differences than is 

1. 

An example illustrating the sensitivity of gross and net profit margin indicators 
is found in Annex I to Chapter II.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 115

the case with price, as used in the CUP method. Net profit indicators also 
may be more tolerant to some functional differences between the controlled 
and uncontrolled transactions than gross profit margins. Differences in the 
functions  performed  between  enterprises  are  often  reflected  in  variations 
in  operating  expenses.  Consequently,  this  may  lead  to  a  wide  range  of 
gross  profit  margins  but  still  broadly  similar  levels  of  net  operating  profit 
indicators. In addition, in some jurisdictions the lack of clarity in the public 
data with respect to the classification of expenses in the gross or operating 
profits may make it difficult to evaluate the comparability of gross margins, 
while the use of net profit indicators may avoid the problem.
2.69.  Another  practical  strength  of  the  transactional  net  margin  method 
is that, as  with any one-sided method, it is necessary to examine a financial 
indicator for only one of the associated enterprises (the “tested” party). Similarly, 
it is often not necessary to state the books and records of all participants in the 
business activity on a common basis or to allocate costs for all participants as 
is  the  case  with  the  transactional  profit  split  method.  This  can  be  practically 
advantageous  when  one  of  the  parties  to  the  transaction  is  complex  and  has 
many interrelated activities or when it is difficult to obtain reliable information 
about  one  of  the  parties.  However,  a  comparability  (including  functional) 
analysis must always be performed in order to appropriately characterise the 
transaction between the parties and choose the most appropriate transfer pricing 
method, and this analysis generally necessitates that some information on the 
five comparability factors in relation to the controlled transaction be collected 
on both the tested and the non-tested parties. See paragraphs 3.20-3.23.
2.70.  There  are  also  a  number  of  weaknesses  to  the  transactional  net 
margin method. The net profit indicator of a taxpayer can be influenced by 
some factors that would either not have an effect, or have a less substantial or 
direct effect, on price or gross margins between independent parties. These 
aspects may make accurate and reliable determinations of arm’s length net 
profit  indicators  difficult.  Thus,  it  is  important  to  provide  some  detailed 
guidance  on  establishing  comparability  for  the  transactional  net  margin 
method, as set forth in paragraphs 2.74-2.81 below.
2.71.  Application  of  any  arm’s  length  method  requires  information 
on  uncontrolled  transactions  that  may  not  be  available  at  the  time  of  the 
controlled transactions. This may make it particularly difficult for taxpayers 
that attempt to apply the transactional net margin method at the time of the 
controlled  transactions  (although  use  of  multiple  year  data  as  discussed  in 
paragraphs 3.75-3.79 may mitigate this concern). In addition, taxpayers may 
not  have  access  to  enough  specific  information  on  the  profits  attributable 
to comparable uncontrolled transactions to make a valid application of the 
method. It also may be difficult to ascertain revenue and operating expenses 
related to the controlled transactions to establish the net profit indicator used 
as the profit 