  observe  payments  for  intangibles  that  take  the  form  of  a 
single  lump  sum.  It  is  also  common  to  observe  payments  for  intangibles 
that take the form of periodic payments over time. Arrangements involving 
periodic payments can be structured either as a series of instalment payments 
fixed  in  amount,  or  may  take  the  form  of  contingent  payments  where  the 
amount  of  payments  depends  on  the  level  of  sales  of  products  supported 
by the intangibles, on profitability, or on some other factor. The principles 
of  Section  D.1.1  of  Chapter  I  should  be  followed  in  evaluating  taxpayer 
agreements with regard to the form of payment.

6.180.  In  evaluating  the  provisions  of  taxpayer  agreements  related  to  the 
form  of  payment,  it  should  be  noted  that  some  payment  forms  will  entail 
greater or lesser levels of risk to one of the parties. For example, a payment 
form contingent on future sales or profit will normally involve greater risk 
to the transferor than a payment form calling for either a single lump-sum 
payment at the time of the transfer or a series of fixed instalment payments, 
because of the existence of the contingency. The chosen form of the payment 
must be consistent with the facts and circumstances of the case, including 
the  written  contracts,  the  actual  conduct  of  the  parties,  and  the  ability  of 
the  parties  to  bear  and  manage  the  relevant  payment  risks.  In  particular, 
the amount of the specified payments should reflect the relevant time value 
of money and risk features of the chosen form of payment. For example, if 
a  valuation  technique  is  applied  and  results  in  the  calculation  of  a  lump-
sum present value for the transferred intangible, and if a taxpayer applies a 
payment form contingent on future sales, the discount rate used in converting 
the lump-sum valuation to a stream of contingent payments over the useful 
life  of  the  intangible  should  reflect  the  increased  risk  to  the  transferor 
that  sales  may  not  materialise  and  that  payments  would  therefore  not  be 
forthcoming, as well as the time value of money consequences arising from 
the deferral of the payments to future years.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 301

D.3.  Arm’s length pricing of transactions involving intangibles for 

which valuation is highly uncertain at the time of the transaction

6.181. 
Intangibles  or  rights  in  intangibles  may  have  specific  features 
complicating the search for comparables and in some cases making it difficult 
to determine the value of an intangible at the time of the transaction. When 
valuation of an intangible or rights in an intangible at the time of the transaction 
is highly uncertain, the question arises as to how arm’s length pricing should 
be  determined.  The  question  should  be  resolved,  both  by  taxpayers  and  tax 
administrations, by reference to what independent enterprises would have done 
in comparable circumstances to take account of the valuation uncertainty in the 
pricing of the transaction. To this aim, the guidance and recommended process 
in Section D of Chapter I and the principles in Chapter III as supplemented 
by  the  guidance  in  this  chapter  for  conducting  a  comparability  analysis  are 
relevant.

6.182.  Depending  on  the  facts  and  circumstances,  there  is  a  variety  of 
mechanisms  that  independent  enterprises  might  adopt  to  address  high 
uncertainty in the valuation of the intangible at the time of the transaction. For 
example, one possibility is to use anticipated benefits (taking into account all 
relevant economic factors) as a means for establishing the pricing at the outset of 
the transaction. In determining the anticipated benefits, independent enterprises 
would  take  into  account  the  extent  to  which  subsequent  developments  are 
foreseeable and predictable. In some cases, independent enterprises might find 
that  subsequent  developments  are  sufficiently  predictable  and  therefore  the 
projections of anticipated benefits are sufficiently reliable to fix the pricing for 
the transaction at the outset on the basis of those projections.

6.183. 
In other cases, independent enterprises might find that pricing based 
on anticipated benefits alone does not provide adequate protection against the 
risks posed by the high uncertainty in valuing the intangible. In such cases 
independent enterprises might, for instance, adopt shorter-term agreements, 
include  price  adjustment  clauses  in  the  terms  of  the  agreement,  or  adopt 
a  payment  structure  involving  contingent  payments  to  protect  against 
subsequent developments that might not be sufficiently predictable. For these 
purposes,  a  contingent  pricing  arrangement  is  any  pricing  arrangement  in 
which the quantum or timing of payments is dependent on contingent events, 
includin