 a  residual  profit  split  method 
that would split the relevant profits from sales of R branded watches 
in Country y by first giving Company S and Primair a basic return 
for the functions they perform and then splitting the residual profit 
on a basis that takes into account the relative contributions of both 
Company S and Primair to the generation of income and the value of 
the R trademark and trade name.

•  Directly compensating Company S for the excess marketing expenditure 
it has incurred over and above that incurred by comparable independent 
enterprises including an appropriate profit element for the functions and 
risks reflected by those expenditures.

34. 
In  this  example,  the  proposed  adjustment  is  based  on  Company  S’s 
having performed functions, assumed risks, and incurred costs that contributed 
to the development of the marketing intangibles for which it was not adequately 
compensated under its arrangement with Primair. If the arrangements between 
Company S and Primair were such that Company S could expect to obtain an 
arm’s length return on its additional investment during the remaining term of 
the distribution agreement, a different outcome could be appropriate.

Example 11

35. 
The facts in this example are the same as in Example 9, except that 
Company  S  now  enters  into  a  three-year  royalty-free  agreement  to  market 
and distribute the watches in the Country y market, with no option to renew. 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

612 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES

At the end of the three-year period, Company S does not enter into a new 
contract with Primair.

36. 
Assume  that  it  is  demonstrated  that  independent  enterprises  do 
enter  into  short-term  distribution  agreements  where  they  incur  marketing 
and  distribution  expenses,  but  only  where  they  stand  to  earn  a  reward 
commensurate  with  the  functions  performed,  the  assets  used,  and  the  risks 
assumed  within  the  time  period  of  the  contract.  Evidence  derived  from 
comparable independent enterprises shows that they do not invest large sums 
of  money  in  developing  marketing  and  distribution  infrastructure  where 
they obtain only a short-term marketing and distribution agreement, with the 
attendant risk of non-renewal without compensation. The potential short-term 
nature of the marketing and distribution agreement is such that Company S 
could not, or may not be able to, benefit from the marketing and distribution 
expenditure it incurs at its own risk. The same factors mean that Company S’s 
efforts may well benefit Primair in the future.

37. 
The  risks  assumed  by  Company  S  are  substantially  higher  than  in 
Example  9  and  Company  S  has  not  been  compensated  on  an  arm’s  length 
basis  for  bearing  these  additional  risks.  In  this  case,  Company  S  has 
undertaken market development activities and borne marketing expenditures 
beyond what comparable independent enterprises with similar  rights  incur 
for  their  own  benefit,  resulting  in  significantly  lower  profit  margins  for 
Company S than are made by comparable enterprises. The short term nature 
of  the  contract  makes  it  unreasonable  to  expect  that  Company  S  has  the 
opportunity of obtaining appropriate benefits under the contract within the 
limited  term  of  the  agreement  with  Primair.  Under  these  circumstances, 
Company S is entitled to compensation for its at risk contribution to the value 
of the R trademark and trade name during the term of its arrangement with 
Primair.

38. 
Such  compensation  could  take  the  form  of  direct  compensation 
from  Primair  to  Company  S  for  the  anticipated  value  created  through  the 
marketing expenditures and market development functions it has undertaken. 
Alternatively, such an adjustment could take the form of a reduction in the 
price paid by Company S to Primair for R watches during years 1 through 3.

Example 12

The  facts  in  this  example  are  the  same  as  in  Example  9  with  the 

39. 
following additions:

•  By  the  end  of  year  3,  the  R  brand  is  successfully  established  in  the 
Country y market and Primair and Company S renegotiate their earlier 
agreement  and  enter  into  a  new  long-term  licensing  agreement.  The 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 613

new agreement, which is to commence at the beginning of year 4, is 
for five years with Company S having an option for a further five years. 
Under this agreement, Company S agrees to pay a royalty to Primair 
based on the gross sales of all watches bearing the R trademark. In all 
other respects, the new agreement has the same terms and conditions as 
in the previous arrangement between the parties. There is no adjustment 
made to the price payable by Company S for the branded watches as a 
result of the introduction of t