tion of the company, the modification of the rights attaching to various 
classes  of  shares  or  the  issue  of  a  new  class  of  shares  etc.    These  decisions 
typically  affect  the  existence  of  the  company  itself  or  the  rights  of  the 
shareholders as such, rather than the conduct of the company’s business from a 
management or commercial perspective and are therefore, generally not relevant 
for the determination of a company’s place of effective management. 

However, the shareholder’s involvement can, in certain situations, turn into 
that of effective management. This may happen through a formal arrangement by 
way of shareholder agreement etc. or may also happen by way of actual conduct.  
As  an  example  if  the  shareholders  limit  the  authority  of  board  and  senior 
managers  of  a  company  and  thereby  remove  the  company’s  real  authority  to 
make  decision  then  the  shareholder  guidance  transforms  into  usurpation  and 
such undue influence may result in effective management being exercised by the 
shareholder. 

Therefore,  whether  the  shareholder  involvement  is  crossing  the  line  into 
that of effective management is one of fact and has to be determined on case-to-
case basis only. 

(g) It may be clarified that day to day routine operational decisions undertaken by 
junior  and  middle  management  shall  not  be  relevant  for  the  purpose  of 
determination of POEM.  The operational decisions relate to the oversight of the 
day-to-day  business  operations  and  activities  of  a  company  whereas  the  key 
management and commercial decision are concerned with broader strategic and 
policy  decision.  For  example,  a  decision  to  open  a  major  new  manufacturing 
facility  or  to  discontinue  a  major  product  line  would  be  examples  of  key 
commercial decisions affecting the company’s business as a whole.  By contrast, 

Page 6 

  
 
 
 
decisions  by  the  plant  manager  appointed  by  senior  management  to  run  that 
facility,  concerning  repairs  and  maintenance,  the  implementation  of  company-
wide  quality  controls  and  human  resources  policies,  would  be  examples  of 
routine  operational  decisions.    In  certain  situations  it  may  happen  that  person 
responsible  for  operational  decision  is  the  same  person  who  is  responsible  for 
the  key  management  and  commercial  decision.    In  such  cases  it  will  be 
necessary  to  distinguish  the  two  type  of  decisions  and  thereafter  assess  the 
location where the key management and commercial decisions are taken. 

If the above factors do not lead to clear identification of POEM then the following 

8.3 
secondary factors can be considered :- 

(i) Place where main and substantial activity of the company is carried out; or  
(ii) Place where the accounting records of the company are kept. 

9. 
It needs to be emphasized that the determination of POEM is to be based on all 
relevant facts related to the management and control of the company, and is not to be 
determined  on  the  basis  of  isolated  facts  that  by  itself  do  not  establish  effective 
management, as illustrated by the following examples: 

(i)  The fact that a foreign company is completely owned by an Indian company will 
not  be  conclusive  evidence  that  the  conditions  for  establishing  POEM  in  India 
have been satisfied. 

(ii)  The fact that there exists a Permanent Establishment of a foreign entity in India 
would itself not be conclusive evidence that the conditions for establishing POEM 
in India have been satisfied. 

(iii)  The fact that one or some of the Directors of a foreign company reside in India 
will not be conclusive evidence that the conditions for establishing POEM in India 
have been satisfied. 

(iv)  The  fact  of,  local  management  being  situated  in  India  in  respect  of  activities 
carried  out  by  a  foreign  company  in  India    will  not  ,  by  itself,  be  conclusive 
evidence that the conditions for establishing POEM have been satisfied. 

(v)  The  existence  in  India  of  support functions  that  are preparatory  and  auxiliary  in 
character  will  not  be  conclusive  evidence  that  the  conditions  for  establishing 
POEM in India have been satisfied. 

10. 
It  is  reiterated  that  the  above  principles  for  determining  the  POEM  are  for 
guidance only. No single principle will be decisive in itself. The above principles are not 
to  be  seen  with  reference  to  any  particular  moment  in  time  rather  activities  performed 
over a period of time, during the previous year, need to be considered. In other words a 
“snapshot”  approach  is  not  to  be  adopted.  Further,  based  on  the  facts  and 
circumstances if it is determined that during the previous year the POEM  is in India and 
also  outside  India  then  POEM  shall  be  presumed  to  be  in  India  if  it  has  been  mainly 
/predominantly in India