 at  illustrating  the  practical 
application of a transfer pricing adjustment arising from the application of 
the HTVI guidance. The assumptions made about arm’s length arrangements 

1. 

Please note that the fact that these examples are focused on the pharmaceutical 
sector should not be interpreted as limiting the application of the HTVI approach 
set  out  in  Section  D.4  of  Chapter  VI  of  the  Guidelines  or  this  guidance  to 
this  particular  industry.  The  HTVI  approach  contained  in  Section  D.4  of  the 
Guidelines and this guidance are applicable to transactions involving intangibles 
qualifying as HTVI under paragraph 6.189, irrespective of the industry or sector 
in which they take place.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

638 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER VI: HARD-TO-VALUE INTANGIBLES

and transfer pricing adjustments determined in the examples are intended for 
illustrative purposes only and should not be taken as prescribing adjustments 
and arm’s length arrangements in actual cases or particular industries. The 
HTVI guidance must be applied in each case according to the specific facts 
and circumstances of the case.

19. 

These examples make the following assumptions:

•  The  transaction  involves  the  transfer  of  an  intangible  (or  rights 
therein) meeting the criteria for HTVI in paragraph 6.189, that is (i) no 
reliable  comparables  exist;  and  (ii)  at  the  time  the  transaction  was 
entered into, the projections of future cash flows or income expected 
to be derived from the transferred intangible, or the assumptions used 
in valuing the intangible, are highly uncertain, making it difficult to 
predict the level of ultimate success of the intangible at the time of the 
transfer.

•  The exemptions to the application of the HTVI approach contained 
in paragraph 6.193 are not applicable unless specifically discussed.

•  As a result, the HTVI guidance is applicable and the tax administration 
may  consider  ex  post  outcomes  as  presumptive  evidence  about  the 
appropriateness of the ex ante pricing arrangements.

•  A transfer pricing adjustment is warranted for the transaction.

In  addition,  the  examples  make  reference  to  valuation  techniques 
20. 
using  the  discounted  value  of  projected  income  or  cash  flows  derived 
from the exploitation of the transferred intangible. Neither this application 
guidance  nor  the  examples  below  are  intended  to  mandate  the  use  of 
valuation techniques using the discounted value of projected income or cash 
flows for determining the arm’s length price of transactions involving HTVI. 
Therefore, references to such a valuation technique should not be interpreted 
as  implying  conclusions  about  the  appropriateness  of  the  technique  in  a 
particular case. The guidance on applying methods based on the discounted 
value of projected cash flows is contained in Chapter VI paragraphs 6.153-
6.178,  and  this  application  guidance  should  be  applied  in  a  manner  that  is 
consistent  with  other  relevant  guidance  contained  in  the  Transfer  Pricing 
Guidelines.

Example 1

21. 
Company A, a resident of Country A, has patented a pharmaceutical 
compound. Company A has concluded pre-clinical tests for the compound 
and  has  successfully  taken  the  compound  through  Phases  I  and  II  of  the 
clinical trials. Company A transfers in year 0 the patent rights to an affiliate, 
Company S, a resident of Country S. Company S will be responsible for the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER VI: HARD-TO-VALUE INTANGIBLES – 639

Phase III trials following the transfer. In order to determine the price for the 
patent  on  the  partially  developed  drug,  the  parties  made  an  estimation  of 
expected income or cash flows that will be obtained upon exploitation of the 
drug once finalised over the remaining life of the patent. Assume the price so 
derived at the time of the transfer was 700 and that this was paid as a lump 
sum in year 0.

22. 
In  particular,  the  taxpayer  assumed  sales  would  not  exceed  1  000 
a  year  and  that  commercialisation  would  not  commence  until  year  6.  The 
discount rate was determined by referring to external data analysing the risk 
of  failure  for  drugs  in  a  similar  therapeutic  category  at  the  same  stage  of 
development. Even if the tax administration of Country A had been aware of 
these facts relating to the transfer of the patent rights in year 0, it would have 
had little means of verifying the reasonableness of the taxpayer’s assumptions 
relating to sales.

Scenario A

23. 
In year 4, the tax administration of Country A audits Company A 
for  years  0-2  and  obtains  information  that  commercialisation  in  fact 
started during year 3 since the Phase III trials were completed earlier than 
projected. Sales in years 3 and 4 correspond to sales that were projected, at 
the time of the transfer,