nce  between 
projections and outcomes arose from unforeseeable events, tax administrations 
will not be entitled to make adjustments to the ex ante pricing arrangements 
based on ex post outcomes. For example, if the evidence of financial outcomes 
shows  that  sales  of  products  exploiting  the  transferred  intangible  reached 
1 000 a year, but the ex ante pricing arrangements were based on projections 
that considered sales reaching a maximum of only 100 a year, then the tax 
administration  should  consider  the  reasons  for  sales  reaching  such  higher 
volumes.  If  the  higher  volumes  were  due  to,  for  example,  an  exponentially 
higher  demand  for  the  products  incorporating  the  intangible  caused  by  a 
natural disaster or some other unexpected event that was clearly unforeseeable 
at the time of the transaction or appropriately given a very low probability of 
occurrence, then the ex ante pricing should be recognised as being at arm’s 
length,  unless  there  is  evidence  other  than  the  ex  post  financial  outcomes 
indicating that price setting did not take place on an arm’s length basis.

7. 

In  some  business  sectors  it  is  not  unusual  for  an  intangible  to  be  transferred 
with a contingent clause relating to a second, or further, use. In respect of the 
type of intangibles where this occurs, the time period begins again with the new 
commercialisation.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 307

6.195.  It would be important to permit resolution of cases of double taxation 
arising  from  application  of  the  approach  for  HTVI  through  access  to  the 
mutual agreement procedure under the applicable Treaty.

D.5.  Supplemental guidance for transactions involving the use 
of intangibles in connection with the sale of goods or the 
provision of services

6.196.  This section provides supplemental guidance for applying the rules of 
Chapters I-III in situations where one or both parties to a controlled transaction 
uses  intangibles  in  connection  with  the  sale  of  goods  or  the  provision  of 
services, but where no transfer of intangibles or interests in intangibles occurs. 
Where  intangibles  are  present,  the  transfer  pricing  analysis  must  carefully 
consider the effect of the intangibles involved on the prices and other conditions 
of controlled transactions.

D.5.1.  Intangibles as a comparability factor in transactions involving 

the use of intangibles

6.197.  The general rules of Section D.1 of Chapter I and Chapter III also 
apply to guide the comparability analysis of transactions involving the use of 
intangibles in connection with a controlled transaction involving the sale of 
goods or the provision of services. However, the presence of intangibles may 
sometimes raise challenging comparability issues.

6.198. 
In a transfer pricing analysis where the most appropriate transfer pricing 
method is the resale price method, the cost-plus method, or the transactional net 
margin method, the less complex of the parties to the controlled transaction is 
often selected as the tested party. In many cases, an arm’s length price or level 
of profit for the tested party can be determined without the need to value the 
intangibles used in connection with the transaction. That would generally be the 
case where only the non-tested party uses intangibles. In some cases, however, 
the tested party may in fact use intangibles notwithstanding its relatively less 
complex operations. Similarly, parties to potentially comparable uncontrolled 
transactions may use intangibles. Where either of these is the case, it becomes 
necessary to consider the intangibles used by the tested party and by the parties 
to potentially comparable uncontrolled transactions as one comparability factor 
in the analysis.

6.199.  For example, a tested party engaged in the marketing and distribution 
of goods purchased in controlled transactions may have developed marketing 
intangibles  in  its  geographic  area  of  operation,  including  customer  lists, 
customer  relationships,  and  customer  data.  It  may  also  have  developed 
advantageous  logistical  know-how  or  software  and  other  tools  that  it  uses 
in  conducting  its  distribution  business.  The  impact  of  such  intangibles  on 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

308 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

the  profitability  of  the  tested  party  should  be  considered  in  conducting  a 
comparability analysis.

6.200.  It is important to note, however, that in many cases where the tested 
party uses such intangibles, parties to comparable uncontrolled transactions 
will also have the same types of intangibles at their disposal. Thus, in the 
distribution  company  case,  an  uncontrolled  entity  engaged  in  providing 
distribution services in the tested party’s industry and market is also likely to 
have knowledge of and contacts with potential customers, 