  for 
transfer  pricing  purposes  since  different  business  strategies  can  have  a 
significant effect on the terms and conditions which would be agreed between 
independent enterprises.

10.35.  For example, independent lenders may be prepared to lend on terms 
and conditions to an enterprise undertaking a merger or acquisition which 
might otherwise not be acceptable to the lender for the same business if it 
were in a steady state. In this kind of scenario, the lender may take a view 
over  the  term  of  the  loan  and  consider  the  borrower’s  business  plans  and 
forecasts,  effectively  acknowledging  that  there  will  be  temporary  changes 
in the financial metrics of the business for a period as it undergoes changes. 
Section D.1.5 of Chapter I gives other examples of business strategies that 
must  be  examined  in  accurately  delineating  the  actual  transaction  and 
determining comparability.

10.36.  The analysis of the business strategies will also include consideration 
of the MNE group’s global financing policy, and the identification of existing 
relationships between the associated enterprises such as pre-existing loans 
and shareholder interests (see Annex I to Chapter V of these Guidelines about 
the information to be included in the master file).

10.37.  For  example,  consider  that  Company  A,  a  member  of  AB  Group, 
advances funds with a term of 10 years to an associated enterprise, Company B, 
which  will  use  the  funding  for  short-term  working  capital  purposes.  This 
advance is the only loan in Company B’s balance sheet. AB Group’s policy 
and practices demonstrate that the MNE group uses a one-year revolving loan 
to manage short-term working capital. In this scenario, under the prevailing 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 411

facts and circumstances, the accurate delineation of the actual transaction may 
conclude that an unrelated borrower under the same conditions of Company B 
would not enter into a 10-year loan agreement to manage its short-term working 
capital needs and the transaction would be accurately delineated as a one-year 
revolving loan rather than a 10-year loan. The consequences of this delineation 
would be that assuming the working capital requirements continue to exist, the 
pricing approach would be to price a series of refreshed one-year revolver loans.

10.38.  In  any  case,  the  reliability  of  results  is  generally  improved  to  the 
extent comparable borrowers pursue similar business strategies to the tested 
borrower involved in an intra-group transaction.

C. Treasury function

10.39.  For MNE groups, the management of group finances is an important 
and  potentially  complex  activity  where  the  approach  adopted  by  individual 
businesses  will  depend  on  the  structure  of  the  business  itself,  its  business 
strategy, place in the business cycle, industry sector, currencies of operation, etc.

10.40.  The  organisation  of  the  treasury  will  depend  on  the  structure 
of  a  given  MNE  group  and  the  complexity  of  its  operations.  Different 
treasury  structures  involve  different  degrees  of  centralisation.  In  the  most 
decentralised  form,  each  MNE  within  the  MNE  group  has  full  autonomy 
over  its  financial  transactions.  Decentralised  treasury  structures  may  be 
present, for instance, in MNE groups with multiple operating divisions that 
operate  in  discrete  industries  or  with  regional  hub  structures,  or  in  MNE 
groups required to comply with specific local regulations. At the opposite end 
of the scale, a centralised treasury has full control over the financial trans-
actions of the MNE group, with entities within the MNE group responsible 
for operational but not financial matters.

10.41.  A  key  function  of  a  corporate  treasury  may  be,  for  example,  to 
optimise  liquidity  across  the  MNE  group  to  ensure  that  the  business  has 
sufficient  cash  available  and  that  it  is  in  the  right  place  when  it  is  needed 
and in the right currency. In general, efficient management of MNE group 
liquidity is driven by considerations above the level of individual entities, and 
acts to help mitigate risk across a number of entities.

10.42.  Whilst  the  treasury’s  cash  and  liquidity  management  function  is 
concerned  with  day-to-day  operations,  corporate  financial  management 
is  concerned  with  development  of  strategies  and  planning  for  investment 
decisions in the longer term. Financial risk management requires identification 
and analysis of, and responses to, the financial risks to which the business is 
exposed. By identifying and taking action to address financial risk, treasury 
can help to optimise the cost of capital to the advantage of the users of the 
MNE group’s treasury services.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

412 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS