 exist legally as an independent Group in Y0, Group E is not required to 
file a CbC report for Y1. Some other jurisdictions may consider that the sub-group of entities (which 
upon sale become an independent Group E) already existed from an economic point of view before the 
sale,  as  part  of  Group  S  and  should,  therefore,  be  required  to  file  the  CbC  report  for  Y1  if  the  total 
consolidated revenues for the sub-group of entities in Y0 is equal to or greater than 750 million Euro. 
Where Group E complies with the approach adopted by the jurisdiction of its UPE on this specific aspect, 
the Constituent Entities of Group E should not be exposed to local filing in any other jurisdiction. 

1.3 In a case where Group S is not an Excluded MNE in Y1 based on its total consolidated group revenue 
for Y0, should Group S include only a pro rata share of the sub-group’s financial data in its CbC report 
for Y1?  

The determination as to the period for which the financial data of the sub-group should be included in 
the CbC reports of Group  S (e.g. pro rata share  or full year) should be governed by the accounting 
principles/standards applicable to Group S (as determined in accordance with the guidance to identify 
the accounting principles/standards for determining the existence and membership of a group). Thus, 
if  the  accounting  principles/standards  applicable  to  Group  S  require  its  Consolidated  Financial 
Statements  to  incorporate  a  pro  rata  share  of  the  financial  data  of  the  sub-group  (i.e.  Group  E 
subsequently), Group S’s CbC report should also include a pro rata share of the financial data of the 
sub-group (Group E). 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
 
 
  | 47 

Fact Pattern #2 

In Y1, Group B acquires 100% of Group E. Both Group B and Group E qualify as an Excluded MNE Group for 
purposes of Y1 as the total consolidated group revenue of each during the preceding Fiscal Year (Y0) is less than 
750 million Euros.   

1.4 If the combined total consolidated group revenues of Group B and Group E during Y0 are equal to or 
greater than 750 million Euros, does this change the position of Group B as an Excluded MNE Group for 
purposes of its CbC report filing obligation for Y1? 

No,  Group  B  will  continue  to  be  an  Excluded  MNE  Group  for  Y1  purposes.  For  the  year  in  which  a 
merger/acquisition/demerger  occurs,  i.e.  Y1,  the  determination  of  whether  the  Group  is  or  not  an 
Excluded MNE Group shall be based on the Group's total consolidated group revenue during the Fiscal 
Year immediately preceding (i.e. Y0) the Reporting Fiscal Year as reflected in its Consolidated Financial 
Statements for such preceding Fiscal Year. There is no need to adjust the consolidated group revenue 
for the preceding Fiscal Year due to a merger/acquisition/demerger occurring during the following year. 

Fact Pattern #3 

On 30 June of Y1, Group B acquires 100% of Group E. Neither Group B nor Group E qualify as an Excluded 
MNE Group for purposes of Y1, as the total consolidated group revenue of each during the preceding Fiscal 
Year (Y0) is equal to or greater than 750 million Euros.   

1.5 Should Group E file a CbC report for the period from 1 January Y1 to 30 June Y1? 

The determination as to whether Group E should file a CbC report for the period from 1 January Y1 to 
30 June Y1 will depend on whether Group E is required to prepare Consolidated Financial Statements. 
If Group E is obligated to prepare Consolidated Financial Statements for the period from 1 January Y1 
to  30  June  Y1  (or  if  the  deemed  listing  provision  applies)  under  the  financial  reporting  rules  in  the 
jurisdiction of the UPE's residence, Group E should also prepare and file a CbC report for the short 
fiscal period before the acquisition.*  

However, where the UPE of Group E is not obligated to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the period from 1 January Y1 to 30 June Y1 under financial reporting rules in the jurisdiction where 
the UPE is a tax resident, Group E is not obligated to prepare and file a CbC report for the short fiscal 
period  either.  In  these  circumstances,  Group  B  should  in  Table  3  of  its  CbC  Report  a)  indicate  that 
Group B acquired Group E; and, b) include the following statement: "Group E did not file a CbC report 
with  any  jurisdictions  for  the  short  accounting  period  before  the  acquisition."  Inclusive  Framework 
members are encouraged to require taxpayers to provide the above information in Table 3 as soon as 
possible, taking into account the specific domestic circumstances.  

*In case where the UPE of Group E does not  exist after the acquisition, the entity or person (e.g. a 
lawyer  or  agent)  responsible  under  the  applicable  rules  (e.g.  accounting,  regulatory,  or  any  other 
relevant legal provisions) to file the Consolidate