ection D.2.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 67

be  entitled  to  unanticipated  profits  or  losses  with  respect  to  the  asset.  That 
company or companies would be required to compensate Company A for the 
return to which it is entitled as described in paragraph 1.103.

D.1.2.2. Risk-free and risk-adjusted rates of return

1.107.  This section of Chapter I provides guidance on how to determine a 
risk-free rate of return and a risk-adjusted rate of return in those situations 
where an associated enterprise is entitled to any of those returns under the 
guidance in this chapter and Chapter VI of these Guidelines.

D.1.2.2.1. Determining a risk-free rate of return

1.108.  Where, in accordance with the guidance in this chapter, the accurate 
delineation of the actual transaction shows that a funder lacks the capability, 
or  does  not  perform  the  decision-making  functions,  to  control  the  risk 
associated with investing in a financial asset, it will be entitled to no more 
than a risk-free return as an appropriate measure of the profits it is entitled 
to retain (see paragraph 1.103 and its footnote). In this context, the funder’s 
costs  related  to  the  borrowing  associated  to  the  funding  should  be  taken 
into account in determining the risk-free rate of return, and subject to other 
constraints,  the  funded  party  would  still  be  entitled  to  a  deduction  up  to 
an arm’s length amount in respect of the funding. The difference between 
those  amounts  would  be  allocable  to  the  party  exercising  control  over  the 
investment risk in accordance with the guidance in this chapter.

1.109.  A  risk-free  rate  of  return  is  the  hypothetical  return  which  would  be 
expected on an investment with no risk of loss. Ultimately, there is no investment 
with zero risk, and the reliability of available proxies for approximating a risk-free 
rate of return will depend on prevailing facts and circumstances.

1.110.  An approach which is widely used in practice is to treat the interest rate 
on certain government issued securities as a reference rate for a risk-free return, 
as  these  securities  are  generally  considered  by  market  practitioners  not  to 
carry significant default risk. The intention of the guidance in this section is to 
outline an approach for reference purposes without suggesting that a particular 
government security should always be used to determine a risk-free rate.

1.111.  To eliminate currency risk, the reference security for determining the 
risk-free rate would need to be a security issued in the same currency as the 
investor’s cash flows, i.e. the functional currency of the investor rather than its 
jurisdiction of domicile. When there are multiple jurisdictions issuing bonds in 
the same currency, the reference point for the risk-free rate of return should be 
the government security with the lowest rate of return as any difference in rate 
must be due to differences in risk between the issuers (see paragraph 10.33).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

68 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

1.112.  Another  relevant  aspect  in  determining  the  risk-free  rate  of  return 
will  be  the  temporal  proximity  of  the  reference  security  to  the  tested 
transaction.  The  security  should  ideally  be  issued  at  the  time,  or  have  a 
similar remaining maturity, as the controlled transaction was entered into to 
eliminate the effect of differences which may be present between securities 
issued at different times (see paragraph 10.32).

1.113.  Another  key  consideration  would  be  the  maturity  of  the  financial 
instrument. The duration of the reference security should match the duration 
of the investment since the duration of an investment will usually affect its 
price. The duration of the controlled investment should be determined as part 
of the process of accurate delineation of the actual transaction. For example, a 
financial instrument which is short-term under the written contractual terms 
between the parties but which is consistently replaced with a new instrument 
may,  depending  upon  the  exact  facts  and  circumstances,  be  accurately 
delineated as a long-term investment.

1.114.  Due to difficulties in practice, practical solutions might be considered 
for estimating the risk-free rate of return. For instance, assume a situation where 
Company A, a member of an MNE group, is not entitled to any more than a 
risk-free  return  under  the  guidance  in  this  chapter  in  relation  to  an  advance 
of funds with a term of one year to an associated enterprise, Company B. In 
approximating  that  return,  the  starting  point  would  be  to  identify  a  security 
issued  at  the  time  of  the  provision  of  the  funding  in  the  same  currency  as 
Company  A’s  functional  currency.  Assume  that  the  tax  administration  of 
Country X, wh