s of the parties, as measured by their functions, assets 
used and risks assumed.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 143

C.5.1. Profit splitting factors

2.169.  As noted above, arm’s length parties can be assumed to split profits 
on the basis of their relative contributions to the creation of those profits. The 
division of the relevant profits under the transactional profit split method is 
generally achieved using one or more profit splitting factors. The functional 
analysis and an analysis of the context in which the transactions take place 
(e.g. the industry and environment) are essential to the process of determining 
the  relevant  factors  to  use  in  splitting  profits,  including  determining  the 
weighting  of  applicable  profit  splitting  factors,  in  cases  where  more  than 
one factor is used. The determination of appropriate profit splitting factor(s) 
should  reflect  the  key  contributions  to  value  in  relation  to  the  transaction. 
Examples 15 and 16 in Annex II to Chapter II of these Guidelines illustrate 
the principles of this section.

2.170.  Depending on the facts and circumstances of the case, the factor can 
be a figure (e.g. a 30%-70% split based on evidence of a similar split achieved 
between  independent  parties  in  comparable  transactions),  or  a  variable 
(e.g. relative value of participant’s marketing contributions or other possible 
factors as discussed below) which could be calculated on the basis of a single 
profit splitting factor or a weighting of multiple factors.

2.171.  Profit splitting factors based on assets or capital (e.g. operating assets, 
fixed  assets  (e.g.  production  assets,  retail  assets,  IT  assets),  intangibles),  or 
costs (e.g. relative spending and/or investment in key areas such as research 
and development, engineering, marketing) may be used where these capture 
the  relative  contributions  of  the  parties  to  the  profits  being  split  and  they 
can  be  measured  reliably.  Note  that  while  costs  may  be  a  poor  measure  of 
the value of intangibles contributed (see paragraph 6.142), the relative costs 
incurred  by  parties  may  provide  a  reasonable  proxy  for  the  relative  value 
of  those  contributions  where  such  contributions  are  similar  in  nature  (see 
paragraphs 8.27-8.28).

2.172.  Other profit splitting factors that could be appropriate in the circumstances 
of a given case include incremental sales, or employee compensation (relating 
to  the  individuals  involved  in  the  key  functions  that  generate  value  to 
the  transaction,  for  example  in  relation  to  the  global  trading  of  financial 
instruments). In other situations it is possible that headcount or time spent by 
a certain group of similarly skilled employees with similar responsibilities 
could  be  used  if  there  is  a  strong  and  relatively  consistent  correlation 
between  this  and  the  creation  of  value  represented  by  the  relevant  profits. 
The guidance in this section should not be considered as an exhaustive list 
of  potential  profit  splitting  factors.  Other  profit  splitting  factors  may  be 
acceptable  provided  they  result  in  arm’s  length  outcomes  for  all  relevant 
parties.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

144 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

2.173. 
In addition to the Local File, which should contain a detailed functional 
analysis  of  the  taxpayer  and  its  relevant  associated  enterprises,  the  MNE 
group’s  Master  File  might  be  a  useful  source  of  information  relevant  to  the 
determination of appropriate profit splitting factors. As is set out in Annex I to 
Chapter V, the Master File should include information on the important drivers 
of  business  profit,  the  principal  contributions  to  value  creation  by  entities 
within the group, and key group intangibles. However, it should be borne in 
mind that the Master File is intended only to provide a high-level overview of 
an MNE group, and not granular or detailed information as to all of the group’s 
transactions.

C.5.2.  Reliance on data from the taxpayer’s own operations  

(internal data)

2.174.  Where comparable uncontrolled transactions of sufficient reliability 
are lacking to support the division of the relevant profits, consideration should 
be given to internal data, which may provide a reliable means of establishing 
or testing the arm’s length nature of the division of profits. The types of such 
internal  data  that  are  relevant  will  depend  on  the  facts  and  circumstances 
of  the  case  and  should  satisfy  the  conditions  outlined  in  this  section  and 
in  particular  in  paragraphs  2.147-2.148  and  2.166.  They  will  frequently  be 
extracted from the taxpayers’ cost accounting or financial accounting.

2.175.  For instance, where an asset-based profit splitting factor is used, it 
may be based