equire a regulatory licence to be issued 
as  a  pre-condition  for  conducting  an  investment  management  business  in 
the  country  and  may  restrict  the  number  of  foreign-owned  firms  to  which 
such  licences  are  granted.  The  comparability  and  functional  analysis 
may  indicate  that  qualifying  for  such  a  licence  requires  demonstrating  to 
appropriate government authorities that the service provider has appropriate 
levels  of  experience  and  capital  to  conduct  such  a  business  in  a  reputable 
fashion.  The  market  to  which  such  a  licence  relates  may  also  be  one  with 
unique  features.  It  may,  for  example  be  a  market  where  the  structure  of 
pension  and insurance arrangements  gives  rise to  large  cash pools, a need 
to  diversify  investments  internationally,  and  a  resulting  high  demand  for 
quality investment management services and knowledge of foreign financial 
markets  that  can  make  the  provision  of  such  services  highly  lucrative. 
The  comparability  analysis  may  further  suggest  that  those  features  of  the 
local  market  may  affect  the  price  that  can  be  charged  for  certain  types  of 
investment management services and the profit margins that may be earned 
from  providing  such  services.  Under  these  circumstances,  the  intangible 
in  question  (i.e.  the  regulatory  licence  to  provide  investment  management 
services)  may  allow  the  party  or  parties  holding  the  licence  to  extract  a 
greater share of the benefits of operating in the local market, including the 
benefits provided by unique features of that market, than would be the case 
in the absence of the licensing requirement. However, in assessing the impact 
of the regulatory licence, it may be important in a particular case to consider 
the  contributions  of  both  the  local  group  member  in  the  local  market  and 
other group members outside the local market in supplying the capabilities 
necessary to obtain the licence, as described in Section B of Chapter VI.
1.171. 
In a different circumstance, the comparability and functional analysis 
may suggest that a government issued business licence is necessary as a pre-
condition for providing a particular service in a geographic market. However, 
it may be the case that such licences are readily available to any qualified 
applicant and do not have the effect of restricting the number of competitors 
in the market. Under such circumstances, the licence requirement may not 
present a material barrier to entry, and possession of such a licence may not 
have any discernible impact on the manner in which the benefits of operating 
in the local market are shared between independent enterprises.

D.7.  Assembled workforce

1.172.  Some businesses are successful in assembling a uniquely qualified 
or experienced cadre of employees. The existence of such an employee group 
may affect the arm’s length price for services provided by the employee group 
or the efficiency with which services are provided or goods produced by the 
enterprise. Such factors should ordinarily be taken into account in a transfer 
pricing comparability analysis. Where it is possible to determine the benefits 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 85

or  detriments  of  a  unique  assembled  workforce  vis-à-vis  the  workforce  of 
enterprises engaging in potentially comparable transactions, comparability 
adjustments may be made to reflect the impact of the assembled workforce 
on arm’s length prices for goods or services.

1.173. 
In some business restructuring and similar transactions, it may be the 
case that an assembled workforce is transferred from one associated enterprise 
to another as part of the transaction. In such circumstances, it may well be that 
the  transfer  of  the  assembled  workforce  along  with  other  transferred  assets 
of the business will save the transferee the time and expense of hiring and 
training a new workforce. Depending on the transfer pricing methods used to 
evaluate the overall transaction, it may be appropriate in such cases to reflect 
such  time  and  expense  savings  in  the  form  of  comparability  adjustments 
to  the  arm’s  length  price  otherwise  charged  with  respect  to  the  transferred 
assets. In other situations, the transfer of the assembled workforce may result 
in limitations on the transferee’s flexibility in structuring business operations 
and create potential liabilities if workers are terminated. In such cases it may 
be appropriate for the compensation paid in connection with the restructuring 
to reflect the potential future liabilities and limitations.

1.174.  The foregoing paragraph is not intended to suggest that transfers or 
secondments of individual employees between members of an MNE group 
should be separately compensated as a general matter. In many instances the 
transfer of indi