ant 
functions  may  include,  among  others,  design  and  control  of  research  and 
marketing  programmes,  direction  of  and  establishing  priorities  for  creative 
undertakings including determining the course of “blue-sky” research, control 
over  strategic  decisions  regarding  intangible  development  programmes, 
and  management  and  control  of  budgets.  For  any  intangible  (i.e.  for  either 
self-developed  or  acquired  intangibles)  other  important  functions  may  also 
include important decisions regarding defence and protection of intangibles, 
and  ongoing  quality  control  over  functions  performed  by  independent  or 
associated  enterprises  that  may  have  a  material  effect  on  the  value  of  the 
intangible. Those important functions usually make a significant contribution 
to  intangible  value  and,  if  those  important  functions  are  outsourced  by  the 
legal owner in transactions between associated enterprises, the performance 
of  those  functions  should  be  compensated  with  an  appropriate  share  of  the 
returns derived by the MNE group from the exploitation of intangibles.

6.57.  Because it may be difficult to find comparable transactions involving 
the outsourcing of such important functions, it may be necessary to utilise 
transfer  pricing  methods  not  directly  based  on  comparables,  including 
transactional  profit  split  methods  and  ex  ante  valuation  techniques,  to 
appropriately reward the performance of those important functions. Where 
the legal owner outsources most or all of such important functions to other 
group members, attribution to the legal owner of any material portion of the 
return  derived  from  the  exploitation  of  the  intangibles  after  compensating 
other  group  members  for  their  functions  should  be  carefully  considered 
taking into account the functions it actually performs, the assets it actually 
uses and the risks it actually assumes under the guidance in Section D.1.2 
of  Chapter  I.  Examples  16  and  17  in  Annex  I  to  Chapter  VI  illustrate  the 
principles contained in this paragraph.
6.58.  Because  the  important  functions  described  in  paragraph  6.56 
are  often  instrumental  in  managing  the  different  functions  performed, 
assets used, and risks assumed that are key to the successful development, 
enhancement,  maintenance,  protection,  or  exploitation  of  intangibles,  and 
are therefore essential to the creation of intangible value, it is necessary to 
carefully evaluate transactions between parties performing these important 
functions and other associated enterprises. In particular, the reliability of a 
one-sided transfer pricing method will be substantially reduced if the party or 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 265

parties performing significant portions of the important functions are treated 
as the tested party or parties. See Example 6.

B.2.2. Use of assets

6.59.  Group  members  that  use  assets  in  the  development,  enhancement, 
maintenance,  protection,  and  exploitation  of  an  intangible  should  receive 
appropriate  compensation  for  doing  so.  Such  assets  may  include,  without 
limitation, intangibles used in research, development or marketing (e.g. know-
how, customer relationships, etc.), physical assets, or funding. One member 
of an MNE group may fund some or all of the development, enhancement, 
maintenance,  and  protection  of  an  intangible,  while  one  or  more  other 
members perform all of the relevant functions. When assessing the appropriate 
anticipated return to funding in such circumstances, it should be recognised 
that in arm’s length transactions, a party that provides funding, but does not 
control the risks or perform other functions associated with the funded activity 
or  asset,  generally  does  not  receive  anticipated  returns  equivalent  to  those 
received by an otherwise similarly-situated investor who also performs and 
controls important functions and controls important risks associated with the 
funded  activity.  The  nature  and  amount  of  compensation  attributable  to  an 
entity that bears intangible-related costs, without more, must be determined on 
the basis of all the relevant facts, and should be consistent with similar funding 
arrangements  among  independent  entities  where  such  arrangements  can  be 
identified. See the guidance in Section D.1.2.1.6 of Chapter I, and in particular 
Example 3 in paragraphs 1.85 and 1.103, which illustrate a situation where the 
party providing funding does not control the financial risk associated with the 
funding.

6.60.  Funding  and  risk-taking  are  integrally  related  in  the  sense  that 
funding  often  coincides  with  the  taking  of  certain  risks  (e.g.  the  funding 
party contractually assuming the risk of loss of its funds). The nature and 
extent of the risk assumed, however, will vary depen