ged between the associated enterprises. This adjustment would 
be made before the tax return is filed.

Contribution analysis

An  analysis  used  in  the  profit  split  method  under  which  the  relevant 
profits  from  controlled  transactions  are  divided  between  the  associated 
enterprises based upon the relative value of the contributions made by each 
of the associated enterprises participating in those transactions, supplemented 
where  possible  by  external  market  data  that  indicate  how  independent 
enterprises would have divided profits in similar circumstances.

Controlled transactions

Transactions between two enterprises that are associated enterprises with 

respect to each other.

Corresponding adjustment

An  adjustment  to  the  tax  liability  of  the  associated  enterprise  in  a 
second tax jurisdiction made by the tax administration of that jurisdiction, 
corresponding to a primary adjustment made by the tax administration in a 
first tax jurisdiction, so that the allocation of profits by the two jurisdictions 
is consistent.

Cost contribution arrangement (CCA)

A  CCA  is  a  contractual  arrangement  among  business  enterprises 
to  share  the  contributions  and  risks  involved  in  the  joint  development, 
production or the obtaining of intangibles, tangible assets or services with the 
understanding that such intangibles, tangible assets or services are expected 
to create benefits for the individual businesses of each of the participants.

Cost plus mark-up

A mark-up that is measured by reference to margins computed after the 
direct and indirect costs incurred by a supplier of property or services in a 
transaction.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

22 – GLOSSARy

Cost plus method

A  transfer  pricing  method  using  the  costs  incurred  by  the  supplier  of 
property (or services) in a controlled transaction. An appropriate cost plus 
mark-up is added to this cost, to make an appropriate profit in light of the 
functions performed (taking into account assets used and risks assumed) and 
the market conditions. What is arrived at after adding the cost plus mark up 
to the above costs may be regarded as an arm’s length price of the original 
controlled transaction.

Direct-charge method

A  method  of  charging  directly  for  specific  intra-group  services  on  a 

clearly identified basis.

Direct costs

Costs that are incurred specifically for producing a product or rendering 

service, such as the cost of raw materials.

Functional analysis

The analysis aimed at identifying the economically significant activities 
and responsibilities undertaken, assets used or contributed, and risks assumed 
by the parties to the transactions.

Global formulary apportionment

An  approach  to  allocate  the  global  profits  of  an  MNE  group  on  a 
consolidated basis among the associated enterprises in different jurisdictions 
on the basis of a predetermined formula.

Gross profits

The gross profits from a business transaction are the amount computed 
by  deducting  from  the  gross  receipts  of  the  transaction  the  allocable 
purchases or production costs of sales, with due adjustment for increases or 
decreases in inventory or stock-in-trade, but without taking account of other 
expenses.

Independent enterprises

Two enterprises are independent enterprises with respect to each other if 

they are not associated enterprises with respect to each other.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

GLOSSARy – 23

Indirect-charge method

A method of charging for intra-group services based upon cost allocation 

and apportionment methods.

Indirect costs

Costs of producing a product or service which, although closely related 
to the production process, may be common to several products or services 
(for example, the costs of a repair department that services equipment used 
to produce different products).

Intra-group service

An activity (e.g. administrative, technical, financial, commercial, etc.) for 
which an independent enterprise would have been willing to pay or perform 
for itself.

Intentional set-off

A  benefit  provided  by  one  associated  enterprise  to  another  associated 
enterprise within the group that is deliberately balanced to some degree by 
different benefits received from that enterprise in return.

Marketing intangible

An  intangible  (within  the  meaning  of  paragraph  6.6)  that  relates  to 
marketing  activities,  aids  in  the  commercial  exploitation  of  a  product  or 
service and/or has an important promotional value for the product concerned. 
Depending on the context, marketing intangibles may include, for example, 
trademarks,  trade  names,  customer  lists,  customer  relationships,  and 
proprietary market and customer data that is used or aids in marketing and 
selling goods or services to customers.

Multinational enterprise group (MNE group)

A group of associated companies with business establishmen