ect to intangibles, 
often  involve  significant  risks  associated  with  what  may  be  uncertain  and 
distant  benefits,  while  services  CCAs  often  offer  more  certain  and  less 
risky benefits. These distinctions are useful because the greater complexity 
of  development  CCAs  may  require  more  refined  guidance,  particularly  on 
the valuation of contributions, than may be required for services CCAs, as 
discussed  below.  However,  the  analysis  of  a  CCA  should  not  be  based  on 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS – 341

superficial distinctions: in some cases, a CCA for obtaining current services 
may  also  create  or  enhance  an  intangible  which  provides  ongoing  and 
uncertain benefits, and some intangibles developed under a CCA may provide 
short-term and relatively certain benefits.

8.11.  Under  a  development  CCA,  each  participant  has  an  entitlement 
to  rights  in  the  developed  intangible(s)  or  tangible  asset(s).  In  relation  to 
intangibles, such rights often take the form of separate rights to exploit the 
intangible in a specific geographic location or for a particular application. The 
separate rights obtained may constitute actual legal ownership; alternatively, 
it may be that only one of the participants is the legal owner of the property 
but the other participants have certain rights to use or exploit the property. In 
cases where a participant has such rights in any property developed by the 
CCA, there is no need for a royalty payment or other further consideration 
for  the  use  of  the  developed  property  consistent  with  the  interest  to  which 
the  participant  is  entitled  under  the  CCA  (however,  the  contributions  of  a 
participant  may  need  to  be  adjusted  if  they  are  not  proportionate  to  their 
expected benefits; see Section C.5).

C. Applying the arm’s length principle

C.1. In general

8.12.  For the conditions of a CCA to satisfy the arm’s length principle, the 
value of participants’ contributions must be consistent with what independent 
enterprises would have agreed to contribute under comparable circumstances 
given their proportionate share of the total anticipated benefits they reasonably 
expect to derive from the arrangement. What distinguishes contributions to a 
CCA from any other intra-group transfer of property or services is that part 
or all of the compensation intended by the participants is the expected mutual 
and proportionate benefit from the pooling of resources and skills. In addition, 
particularly for development CCAs, the participants agree to share the upside 
and downside consequences of risks associated with achieving the anticipated 
CCA outcomes. As a result, there is a distinction between, say, the intra-group 
licensing of an intangible where the licensor has borne the development risk 
on its own and expects compensation through the licensing fees it will receive 
once  the  intangible  has  been  fully  developed,  and  a  development  CCA  in 
which all parties make contributions and share in the consequences of risks 
materialising in relation to the development of the intangible and decide that 
each of them, through those contributions, acquires a right in the intangible.

8.13.  The expectation of mutual and proportionate benefit is fundamental 
to the acceptance by independent enterprises of an arrangement for sharing 
the  consequences  of  risks  materialising  and  pooling  resources  and  skills. 
Independent  enterprises  would  require  that  the  value  of  each  participant’s 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

342 – CHAPTER VIII: COST CONTRIBUTION ARRANGEMENTS

proportionate share of the actual overall contributions to the arrangement is 
consistent with the participant’s proportionate share of the overall expected 
benefits  to  be  received  under  the  arrangement.  To  apply  the  arm’s  length 
principle to a CCA, it is therefore a necessary precondition that all the parties 
to the arrangement have a reasonable expectation of benefit. The next step is 
to calculate the value of each participant’s contribution to the joint activity, 
and  finally  to  determine  whether  the  allocation  of  CCA  contributions  (as 
adjusted  for  any  balancing  payments  made  among  participants)  accords 
with their respective share of expected benefits. It should be recognised that 
these determinations are likely to bear a degree of uncertainty, particularly 
in  relation  to  development  CCAs.  The  potential  exists  for  contributions  to 
be  allocated  among  CCA  participants  so  as  to  result  in  an  overstatement 
of  taxable  profits  in  some  jurisdictions  and  the  understatement  of  taxable 
profits in others, measured against the arm’s length principle. For that reason, 
taxpayers  should  be  prepared  to  substantiate  the  basis  of  their  claim  with 
respect to the CCA (see S