ctices  of  group  management  will  assist  in  informing  the 
form and terms and conditions of the debt the MNE would have entered into 
with an independent lender, including the pricing (i.e. interest rate paid), and 
all economically relevant characteristics such as the type of loan, its term, 
currency, security, covenants, business strategies, and so forth. Secondly, the 
MNE may receive support from the group to meet its financial obligations 
in the event of the borrower getting into financial difficulty. Paragraph 1.178 
of  Chapter  I  of  these  Guidelines  is  relevant  to  analyse  the  effect  of  group 
membership on the terms and conditions of a borrowing when the borrowing 
MNE  obtains  an  incidental  benefit  arising  solely  by  virtue  of  group 
affiliation, i.e. passive association.

10.77. 
In the context of intra-group loans, this incidental benefit that the MNE 
is  assumed  to  receive  solely  by  virtue  of  group  affiliation,  is  referred  to  as 
implicit support. The effect of potential group support on the credit rating of an 
entity and any effect on that entity’s ability to borrow or the interest rate paid on 
those borrowings would not require any payment or comparability adjustment. 
See Example 1 in paragraphs 1.184-1.186 of Chapter I and Section D.3.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 419

10.78.  Implicit support from the group may affect the credit rating of the 
borrower or the rating of any debt which it issues. The relative status of an 
entity within the group may help determine what impact that potential group 
support has on the credit rating of a debt issuer. Entities of an MNE group 
will be more or less likely to receive group support according to the relative 
importance  of  the  entity  to  the  MNE  group  as  a  whole  and  the  linkages 
between the entity and the rest of the MNE group, either in its current form 
or in terms of future strategy. An MNE group member with stronger links, 
that  is  integral  to  the  group’s  identity  or  important  to  its  future  strategy, 
typically operating in the group’s core business, would ordinarily be more 
likely to be supported by other MNE group members and consequently have 
a credit rating more closely linked to that of the MNE group. Conversely, it 
may be reasonable to assume that an entity would be likely to receive support 
from the rest of the MNE group in more limited circumstances where it does 
not  show  those  same  indicators  or  the  linkages  are  weaker.  In  the  case  of 
an entity where there is evidence that no support would be provided by the 
MNE group, it may be appropriate on the prevailing facts and circumstances 
to consider the entity on the basis of its own stand-alone credit rating only.

10.79.  Another key consideration would be the likely consequences for other 
parts of the MNE group of supporting or not supporting the borrower. The 
criteria used to determine the status of an entity in this regard may include 
such  considerations  as  legal  obligations  (e.g.  regulatory  requirements), 
strategic importance, operational integration and significance, shared name, 
potential reputational impacts, negative effects on the overall MNE group, 
general statement of policy or intent, and any history of support and common 
behaviour  of  the  MNE  group  with  respect  to  third  parties.  The  relative 
relevance of those factors may vary from one industry to another.

10.80.  The  impact  of  an  assessment  of  implicit  support  is  a  matter  of 
judgement. The kind of information on which the MNE group would base 
a decision of whether or not to provide support to a borrower in particular 
circumstances may not be available to a tax administration, as is frequently 
the case in transfer pricing examinations, and the existence of information 
asymmetry  may  affect  the  ability  of  tax  administrations  to  establish  the 
likelihood of support (see Section B.2 in Chapter IV). Furthermore, changing 
facts  and  circumstances  affecting  the  willingness  or  ability  of  the  MNE 
group  to  provide  support  may  mean  that  there  is  no  decision  by  the  MNE 
group itself until the eventuality for such support arises. This contrasts, for 
example, where the MNE receives a formal guarantee from another group 
member. The past behaviour of an MNE group as regards providing support 
may  be  a  useful  indicator  of  likely  future  behaviour  but  an  appropriate 
analysis should be undertaken to identify whether different conditions apply.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

420 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

C.1.1.4. Use of MNE group credit rating

It  is  also  important  to  note  that  although  there  are  established 
10.81. 
approaches to estimate a credit rating for a particular group member or debt 
issuance,  the  considerations  detailed  above  mean  that  a  pricing  approach 
based  