ould need to be 
deduced from the conduct of the parties. For example, technical assistance 
may have been granted, synergies may have been created through deliberate 
concerted  action  (as  discussed  in  Section  D.8),  or  know-how  may  have 
been  provided  through  seconded  employees  or  otherwise.  These  relations 
may  not  have  been  recognised  by  the  MNE,  may  not  be  reflected  in  the 
pricing  of  other  connected  transactions,  may  not  have  been  formalised  in 
written contracts, and may not appear as entries in the accounting systems. 
Where the transaction has not been formalised, all aspects would need to be 
deduced from available evidence of the conduct of the parties, including what 
functions  are  actually  performed,  what  assets  are  actually  used,  and  what 
risks are actually assumed by each of the parties.

1.50.  The  following  example  illustrates  the  concept  of  determining  the 
actual transaction where a transaction has not been identified by the MNE. In 
reviewing the commercial or financial relations between Company P and its 
subsidiary companies, it is observed that those subsidiaries receive services 
from an independent party engaged by Company P. Company P pays for the 
services, the subsidiaries do not reimburse Company P directly or indirectly 
through the pricing of another transaction and there is no service agreement 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

46 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

in place between Company P and the subsidiaries. The conclusion is that, in 
addition to a provision of services by the independent party to the subsidiaries, 
there  are  commercial  or  financial  relations  between  Company  P  and  the 
subsidiaries, which transfer potential value from Company P to the subsid-
iaries. The analysis would need to determine the nature of those commercial 
or financial relations from the economically relevant characteristics in order to 
determine the terms and conditions of the identified transaction.

D.1.2. Functional analysis

In transactions between two independent enterprises, compensation 
1.51. 
usually  will  reflect  the  functions  that  each  enterprise  performs  (taking 
into  account  assets  used  and  risks  assumed).  Therefore,  in  delineating  the 
controlled transaction and determining comparability between controlled and 
uncontrolled transactions or entities, a functional analysis is necessary. This 
functional  analysis  seeks  to  identify  the  economically  significant  activities 
and responsibilities undertaken, assets used or contributed, and risks assumed 
by  the  parties  to  the  transactions.  The  analysis  focuses  on  what  the  parties 
actually do and the capabilities they provide. Such activities and capabilities 
will  include  decision-making,  including  decisions  about  business  strategy 
and risks. For this purpose, it may be helpful to understand the structure and 
organisation of the MNE group and how they influence the context in which 
the MNE operates. In particular, it is important to understand how value is 
generated  by  the  group  as  a  whole,  the  interdependencies  of  the  functions 
performed  by  the  associated  enterprises  with  the  rest  of  the  group,  and  the 
contribution that the associated enterprises make to that value creation. It will 
also be relevant to determine the legal rights and obligations of each of the 
parties in performing their functions. While one party may provide a large 
number  of  functions relative to that of the other party to the transaction,  it 
is the economic significance of those functions in terms of their frequency, 
nature, and value to the respective parties to the transactions that is important.

1.52.  The actual contributions, capabilities, and other features of the parties 
can  influence  the  options  realistically  available  to  them.  For  example,  an 
associated  enterprise  provides  logistics  services  to  the  group.  The  logistics 
company is required to operate warehouses with spare capacity and in several 
locations in order to be able to cope in the event that supply is disrupted at any 
one location. The option of greater efficiency through consolidation of locations 
and reduction in excess capacity is not available. Its functions and assets may, 
therefore,  be  different  to  those  of  an  independent  logistics  company  if  that 
independent service provider did not offer the same capabilities to reduce the 
risk of disruption to supply.

1.53.  Therefore,  the  process  of  identifying  the  economically  relevant 
characteristics  of  the  commercial  or  financial  relations  should  include 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 47

consideration of the capabilities of the parties, how such capabilities affect 
options realistically available, and whether similar capabilities are reflected 
in potentially comparab