ure to timely submit required information are usually 
civil  (or  administrative)  monetary  penalties.  These  documentation-related  penalties  are 
based  on  a  fixed  amount  that  may  be  assessed  for  each  document  missing  or  for  each 
fiscal year under review, or calculated as a percentage of the related tax understatement 
ultimately  determined,  a  percentage  of  the  related  adjustment  to  the  income,  or  as  a 
percentage of the amount of the cross-border transactions not documented.

42.  Care should be taken not to impose a documentation-related penalty on a taxpayer for 
failing to submit data to which the MNE group did not have access. however, a decision 
not  to  impose  documentation-related  penalties  does  not  mean  that  adjustments  cannot 
be made to income where prices are not consistent with the arm’s length principle. The 
fact  that  positions  are  fully  documented  does  not  necessarily  mean  that  the  taxpayer’s 
positions are correct. Moreover, an assertion by a local entity that other group members are 
responsible for transfer pricing compliance is not a sufficient reason for that entity to fail 
to provide required documentation, nor should such an assertion prevent the imposition of 
documentation-related penalties for failure to comply with documentation rules where the 
necessary information is not forthcoming.

43.  Another  way  for  countries  to  encourage  taxpayers  to  fulfil  transfer  pricing 
documentation  requirements  is  by  designing  compliance  incentives  such  as  penalty 
protection  or  a  shift  in  the  burden  of  proof.  where  the  documentation  meets  the 
requirements and is timely submitted, the taxpayer could be exempted from tax penalties 
or subject to a lower penalty rate if a transfer pricing adjustment is made and sustained, 
notwithstanding the provision of documentation. In some jurisdictions where the taxpayer 
bears the burden of proof regarding transfer pricing matters, a shift of the burden of proof 
to  the  tax  administration’s  side  where  adequate  documentation  is  provided  on  a  timely 
basis offers another measure that could be used to create an incentive for transfer pricing 
documentation compliance.

D.8. Confidentiality

44.  Tax administrations should take all reasonable steps to ensure that there is no public 
disclosure  of  confidential  information  (trade  secrets,  scientific  secrets,  etc.)  and  other 
commercially  sensitive  information  contained  in  the  documentation  package  (master 
file, local file and Country-by-Country Report). Tax administrations should also assure 
taxpayers  that  the  information  presented  in  transfer  pricing  documentation  will  remain 
confidential. In cases where disclosure is required in public court proceedings or judicial 
decisions, every effort should be made to ensure that confidentiality is maintained and that 
information is disclosed only to the extent needed.

45.  The OECD Guide (2012) “Keeping It Safe” on the protection of confidentiality of 
information exchanged for tax purposes provides guidance on the rules and practices that 

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

20 –  ChAPTER v OF ThE TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES ON DOCUMENTATION

must be in place to ensure the confidentiality of tax information exchanged under exchange 
of information instruments.

D.9. Other issues

46.  The requirement to use the most reliable information will usually, but not always, 
require  the  use  of  local  comparables  over  the  use  of  regional  comparables  where  such 
local comparables are reasonably available. The use of regional comparables in transfer 
pricing documentation prepared for countries in the same geographic region in situations 
where appropriate local comparables are available will not, in some cases, comport with 
the obligation to rely on the most reliable information. while the simplification benefits 
of  limiting  the  number  of  comparable  searches  a  company  is  required  to  undertake  are 
obvious, and materiality and compliance costs are relevant factors to consider, a desire for 
simplifying compliance processes should not go so far as to undermine compliance with 
the requirement to use the most reliable available information. See paragraphs 1.57-1.58 on 
market differences and multi-country analyses for further detail of when local comparables 
are to be preferred.

47. 
It is not recommended, particularly at the stage of transfer pricing risk assessment, to 
require that the transfer pricing documentation should be certified by an outside auditor or 
other third party. Similarly, mandatory use of consulting firms to prepare transfer pricing 
documentation is not recommended.

E. Implementation

48. 
It  is  essential  that  the  guidance  in  this  chapter,  and  in  particular  the  Country-
by-Country  Report,  be  implemented  effectively  and  consistently.  Theref