 requirements will help to ensure the 
integrity of the taxpayers’ positions and restrain taxpayers from developing justifications 
for their positions after the fact.

8. 
This  compliance  objective  may  be  supported  in  two  important  ways.  First,  tax 
administrations can require that transfer pricing documentation requirements be satisfied 
on a contemporaneous basis. This would mean that the documentation would be prepared 
at the time of the transaction, or in any event, no later than the time of completing and 
filing the tax return for the fiscal year in which the transaction takes place. The second 
way to encourage compliance is to establish transfer pricing penalty regimes in a manner 
intended  to  reward  timely  and  accurate  preparation  of  transfer  pricing  documentation 
and to create incentives for timely, careful consideration of the taxpayer’s transfer pricing 
positions.  Filing  requirements  and  penalty  provisions  related  to  documentation  are 
discussed in greater detail in Section D, below.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

 ChAPTER v OF ThE TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES ON DOCUMENTATION – 13

9.  while ideally taxpayers will use transfer pricing documentation as an opportunity 
to articulate a well thought-out basis for their transfer pricing policies, thereby meeting 
an important objective of such requirements, issues such as costs, time constraints, and 
competing demands for the attention of relevant personnel can sometimes undermine these 
objectives.  It  is  therefore  important  for  countries  to  keep  documentation  requirements 
reasonable and focused on material transactions in order to ensure mindful attention to the 
most important matters.

B.2. Transfer pricing risk assessment

10.  Effective  risk  identification  and  assessment  constitute  an  essential  early  stage  in 
the process of selecting appropriate cases for transfer pricing audits or enquiries and in 
focusing such audits on the most important issues. Because tax administrations operate 
with limited resources, it is important for them to accurately evaluate, at the very outset 
of a possible audit, whether a taxpayer’s transfer pricing arrangements warrant in-depth 
review  and  a  commitment  of  significant  tax  enforcement  resources.  Particularly  with 
regard to transfer pricing issues (which generally are complex and fact-intensive), effective 
risk  assessment  becomes  an  essential  prerequisite  for  a  focused  and  resource-efficient 
audit.  The  OECD  handbook  on  Transfer  Pricing  Risk  Assessment  is  a  useful  tool  to 
consider in conducting such risk assessments.

11.  Proper assessment of transfer pricing risk by the tax administration requires access 
to  sufficient,  relevant  and  reliable  information  at  an  early  stage.  while  there  are  many 
sources of relevant information, transfer pricing documentation is one critical source of 
such information.

12.  There  is  a  variety  of  tools  and  sources  of  information  used  for  identifying  and 
evaluating transfer pricing risks of taxpayers and transactions, including transfer pricing 
forms (to be filed with the annual tax return), transfer pricing mandatory questionnaires 
focusing on particular areas of risk, general transfer pricing documentation requirements 
identifying the supporting evidence necessary to demonstrate the taxpayer’s compliance 
with the arm’s length principle, and cooperative discussions between tax administrations 
and taxpayers. Each of the tools and sources of information appears to respond to the same 
fundamental observation: there is a need for the tax administration to have ready access to 
relevant information at an early stage to enable an accurate and informed transfer pricing 
risk assessment. Assuring that a high quality transfer pricing risk assessment can be carried 
out  efficiently  and  with  the  right  kinds  of  reliable  information  should  be  one  important 
consideration in designing transfer pricing documentation rules.

B.3. Transfer pricing audit

13.  A third objective for transfer pricing documentation is to provide tax administrations 
with useful information to employ in conducting a thorough transfer pricing audit. Transfer 
pricing  audit  cases  tend  to  be  fact-intensive.  They  often  involve  difficult  evaluations 
of  the  comparability  of  several  transactions  and  markets.  They  can  require  detailed 
consideration  of  financial,  factual  and  other  industry  information.  The  availability  of 
adequate information from a variety of sources during the audit is critical to facilitating 
a tax administration’s orderly examination of the taxpayer’s controlled transactions with 
associated enterprises and enforcement of the applicable transfer pricing rules.

14. 
In situations where a proper transfer pricing risk assessment suggests that a thorough 
transfer pricing audit is warrante