ty until the discussions have been concluded.

4.49.  The work on Action 14 of the BEPS Action Plan directly addresses 
the obstacle that domestic law time limits may present to effective mutual 
agreement  procedures.  Element  3.3  of  the  Action  14  minimum  standard 
includes  a  recommendation  that  jurisdictions  should  include  the  second 
sentence  of  paragraph  2  of  Article  25  in  their  tax  treaties  to  ensure  that 
domestic law time limits (1) do not prevent the implementation of competent 
authority mutual agreements and (2) do not thereby frustrate the objective of 
resolving cases of taxation not in accordance with the Convention.

4.50.  Where a jurisdiction cannot include the second sentence of paragraph 2 
of Article 25 in its tax treaties, element 3.3 of the Action 14 minimum standard 
states that it should be willing to accept an alternative treaty provision that 
limits  the  time  during  which  a  Contracting  State  may  make  an  adjustment 
pursuant to Article 9(1), in order to avoid late adjustments with respect to which 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 189

mutual  agreement  procedure  relief  will  not  be  available.  Such  a  jurisdiction 
would  satisfy  this  element  of  the  minimum  standard  where  the  alternative 
treaty provision was drafted to reflect the time limits for adjustments provided 
for in that country’s domestic law. That alternative provision, as presented in 
the Report on BEPS Action 14, reads as follows:

[In Article 9]:

3. A Contracting State shall not include in the profits of an enterprise, 
and tax accordingly, profits that would have accrued to the enterprise 
but by reason of the conditions referred to in paragraph 1 have not so 
accrued, after [bilaterally agreed period] from the end of the taxable 
year in which the profits would have accrued to the enterprise. The 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply in the case of fraud, gross 
negligence or wilful default.

Element 3.3 of the Action 14 minimum standard also states that such a 
jurisdiction accept a similar alternative provision in Article 7 with respect to 
adjustments to the profits that are attributable to a permanent establishment.

4.51.  While it is not possible to recommend generally a time limit on initial 
assessments, tax administrations are encouraged to make these assessments 
within their own domestic time limits without extension. If the complexity of 
the case or lack of cooperation from the taxpayer necessitates an extension, 
the  extension  should  be  made  for  a  minimum  and  specified  time  period. 
Further, where domestic time limits can be extended with the agreement of 
the  taxpayer,  such  an  extension  should  be  made  only  when  the  taxpayer’s 
consent  is  truly  voluntary.  Tax  examiners  are  encouraged  to  indicate  to 
taxpayers at an early stage their intent to make an assessment based on cross-
border transfer pricing, so that the taxpayer can, if it so chooses, inform the 
tax  administration  in  the  other  interested  State,  which  could  accordingly 
begin  to  consider  the  relevant  issues  with  a  view  to  a  possible  mutual 
agreement procedure.

4.52.  Another  time  limit  that  must  be  considered  is  the  three-year  time 
limit  within  which  a  taxpayer  must  invoke  the  mutual  agreement  procedure 
under Article 25 of the OECD Model Tax Convention. The three-year period 
begins to run from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in 
accordance with the provisions of the Convention, which can be the time when 
the tax administration first notifies the taxpayer of the proposed adjustment, 
described as the “adjustment action” or “act of taxation”, or an earlier date as 
discussed  in  paragraphs  21-24  of  the  Commentary  on  Article  25.  Although 
some  jurisdictions  consider  three  years  too  short  a  period  for  invoking  the 
procedure, other countries consider it too long and have entered reservations on 
this point. The Commentary on Article 25 indicates that the time limit “must be 
regarded as a minimum so that Contracting States are left free to agree in their 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

190 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

bilateral conventions upon a longer period in the interests of taxpayers”. In this 
regard, it should be noted that element 1.1 of the Action 14 minimum standard 
includes  a  recommendation  that  jurisdictions  include  in  their  tax  treaties 
paragraphs 1 through 3 of Article 25, as interpreted in the Commentary.

4.53.  The  three-year  time  limit  raises  the  issue  of  determining  its 
starting  date,  which  is  addressed  in  paragraphs  21-24  of  the  Commentary 
on  Article  25.  In  particular,  paragraph  21  states  that  the  three-year  time 
period “should be interpreted in the way most favourable to the taxpayer”. 
Paragraph 22 contains 