onal net margin method, the 
issue of the use of non-transactional third party data is in practice more acute 
when applying this method due to the heavy reliance on external comparables. 
The problem arises because there are often insufficient public data to allow 
for  third  party  net  profit  indicators  to  be  determined  at  transactional  level. 
This is why there needs to be sufficient comparability between the controlled 
transaction  and  the  comparable  uncontrolled  transactions.  Given  that  often 
the  only  data  available  for  the  third  parties  are  company-wide  data,  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 127

functions performed by the third party in its total operations must be closely 
aligned to those functions performed by the tested party with respect to its 
controlled transactions in order to allow the former to be used to determine 
an arm’s length outcome for the latter. The overall objective is to determine 
a level of segmentation that provides reliable comparables for the controlled 
transaction,  based  on  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the  particular  case. 
In case it is impossible in practice to achieve the transactional level set out 
as the ideal by these Guidelines, it is still important to try to find the most 
reliable comparables as discussed in paragraph 3.2, through making suitable 
adjustments based on the evidence that is available.

2.110.  See  in  particular  paragraphs  3.18-3.19  for  guidance  on  the  tested 
party,  paragraphs  3.55-3.66  for  guidance  on  the  arm’s  length  range,  and 
paragraphs 3.75-3.79 for guidance on multiple year data.

B.4.  Examples of the application of the transactional net margin 

method

2.111.  By  way  of  illustration,  the  example  of  cost  plus  in  paragraph  2.59 
demonstrates the need to adjust the gross mark-up arising from transactions 
in  order  to  achieve  consistent  and  reliable  comparison.  Such  adjustments 
may  be  made  without  difficulty  where  the  relevant  costs  can  be  readily 
analysed.  Where,  however,  it  is  known  that  an  adjustment  is  required,  but 
it is not possible to identify the particular costs for which an adjustment is 
required, it may, nevertheless, be possible to identify the net profit arising 
on the transaction and thereby ensure that a consistent measure is used. For 
example, if the supervisory, general, and administrative costs that are treated 
as  part  of  costs  of  goods  sold  for  the  independent  enterprises  X,  y  and  Z 
cannot be identified so as to adjust the mark up in a reliable application of 
cost plus, it may be necessary to examine net profit indicators in the absence 
of more reliable comparisons.

2.112.  A  similar  approach  may  be  required  when  there  are  differences  in 
functions performed by the parties being compared. Assume that the facts are 
the same as in the example in paragraph 2.44 except that it is the comparable 
independent  enterprises  that  perform  the  additional  function  of  technical 
support and not the associated enterprise, and that these costs are reported in 
the cost of goods sold but cannot be separately identified. Because of product 
and  market  differences  it  may  not  be  possible  to  find  a  CUP,  and  a  resale 
price method would be unreliable since the gross margin of the independent 
enterprises would need to be higher than that of the associated enterprise in 
order to reflect the additional function and to cover the unknown additional 
costs. In this example, it may be more reliable to examine net margins in order 
to assess the difference in the transfer price that would reflect the difference 
in function. The use of net margins in such a case needs to take account of 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

128 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

comparability and may not be reliable if there would be a material effect on net 
margin as a result of the additional function or as a result of market differences.

2.113.  The facts are the same as in paragraph 2.42. However, the amount 
of  the  warranty  expenses  incurred  by  Distributor  A  proves  impossible  to 
ascertain so that it is not possible to reliably adjust the gross profit of A to 
make the gross profit margin properly comparable with that of B. However, 
if there are no other material functional differences between A and B and the 
net profit of A relative to its sales is known, it might be possible to apply the 
transactional net margin method to B by comparing the margin relative to A’s 
sales to net profits with the margin calculated on the same basis for B.

C. Transactional profit split method

C.1.  General

2.114.  The transactional profit split method seeks to establish arm’s length 
outcomes  or  test  reported  outcomes  for  controlled  transactions  in  order  to 
approximate the results that would have been achieved between i