limination  of  costly 
duplication  of  effort,  integrated  systems,  purchasing  or  borrowing  power, 
etc. Such features may have an effect on the determination of arm’s length 
conditions  for  controlled  transactions  and  should  be  addressed  for  transfer 
pricing purposes as comparability factors. As they are not owned or controlled 
by an enterprise, they are not intangibles within the meaning of Section A.1. 
See Section D.8 of Chapter I for a discussion of the transfer pricing treatment 
of group synergies.

A.4.8. Market specific characteristics

6.31. 
Specific characteristics of a given market may affect the arm’s length 
conditions  of  transactions  in  that  market.  For  example,  the  high  purchasing 
power  of  households  in  a  particular  market  may  affect  the  prices  paid  for 
certain  luxury  consumer  goods.  Similarly,  low  prevailing  labour  costs, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 255

proximity to markets, favourable weather conditions and the like may affect the 
prices paid for specific goods and services in a particular market. Such market 
specific characteristics are not capable, however, of being owned or controlled, 
and  are  therefore  not  intangibles  within  the  meaning  of  Section  A.1,  and 
should be taken into account in a transfer pricing analysis through the required 
comparability analysis. See Section D.6 of Chapter I for guidance regarding the 
transfer pricing treatment of market specific characteristics.

B.  Ownership of intangibles and transactions involving the development, 
enhancement, maintenance, protection and exploitation of intangibles

6.32. 
In  transfer  pricing  cases  involving  intangibles,  the  determination 
of the entity or entities within an MNE group which are ultimately entitled 
to  share  in  the  returns  derived  by  the  group  from  exploiting  intangibles  is 
crucial.3  A  related  issue  is  which  entity  or  entities  within  the  group  should 
ultimately  bear  the  costs,  investments  and  other  burdens  associated  with 
the  development,  enhancement,  maintenance,  protection  and  exploitation 
of  intangibles.  Although  the  legal  owner  of  an  intangible  may  receive  the 
proceeds  from  exploitation  of  the  intangible,  other  members  of  the  legal 
owner’s MNE group may have performed functions, used assets,4 or assumed 
risks that are expected to contribute to the value of the intangible. Members of 
the MNE group performing such functions, using such assets, and assuming 
such risks must be compensated for their contributions under the arm’s length 
principle. This Section B confirms that the ultimate allocation of the returns 
derived  by  the  MNE  group  from  the  exploitation  of  intangibles,  and  the 
ultimate  allocation  of  costs  and  other  burdens  related  to  intangibles  among 
members of the MNE group, is accomplished by compensating members of 
the MNE group for functions performed, assets used, and risks assumed in 
the development, enhancement, maintenance, protection and exploitation of 
intangibles according to the principles described in Chapters I-III.

6.33.  Applying the provisions of Chapters I-III to address these questions 
can be highly challenging for a number of reasons. Depending on the facts 
of any given case involving intangibles the following factors, among others, 
can create challenges:

3. 

4. 

As  used  herein,  exploitation  of  an  intangible  includes  both  the  transfer  of  the 
intangible or rights in the intangible and the use of the intangible in commercial 
operations.
As used in this Section B, the use of assets includes the contribution of funding 
and/or  capital  to  the  development,  enhancement,  maintenance,  protection  or 
exploitation of intangibles. See paragraph 6.59.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

256 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

i)  A lack of comparability between the intangible related transactions 
undertaken  between  associated  enterprises  and  those  transactions 
that can be identified between independent enterprises;

ii)  A lack of comparability between the intangibles in question;

iii)  The  ownership  and/or  use  of  different  intangibles  by  different 

associated enterprises within the MNE group;

iv)  The difficulty of isolating the impact of any particular intangible on 

the MNE group’s income;

v)  The fact that various members of an MNE group may perform activities 
relating  to  the  development,  enhancement,  maintenance,  protection 
and  exploitation  of  an  intangible,  often  in  a  way  and  with  a  level  of 
integration that is not observed between independent enterprises;

vi)  The fact that contributions of various members of the MNE group to 
intangible value may take place in years different than the years in 
which any associated returns are realised; and

vii) The  fact  that  taxpayer  structures  may  be  based  on  co