tax administration maintain to identify, report, and correct 
information system flaws in a timely manner? Please describe how these procedures 
provide for the protection of systems against malicious codes causing harm to data 
integrity. Are these procedures publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, 
please provide a summary.

2.11 Security Assessments

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Processes used to test, validate, and authorise the security 

controls for protecting data, correcting deficiencies, and reducing 
vulnerabilities

What policies does your tax administration maintain and regularly update for reviewing the 
processes used to test, validate, and authorise a security control plan? Is the policy publicly 
available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

2.12 Contingency Planning

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Plans for emergency response, backup operations, and post-

disaster recovery of information systems

What contingency plans and procedures does your tax administration maintain to reduce 
the impact of improper data disclosure or unrecoverable loss of data? Are the plans and 
procedures publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a 
summary.

2.13 Risk Assessment

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Potential risk of unauthorised access to taxpayer information
•  Risk and magnitude of harm from unauthorised use, disclosure, or 

disruption of the taxpayer information systems

•  Procedures to update risk assessment methodologies

Does your tax administration conduct risk assessments to identify risks and the potential 
impact of unauthorised access, use, and disclosure of information, or destruction of 
information systems? What procedures does your tax administration maintain to update risk 
assessment methodologies? Are these risk assessments and policies publicly available? If 
so, please provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

584 – ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

2.14 Systems and Services Acquisition

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Methods and processes to ensure third-party providers of 

information systems process, store and transmit confidential 
information in accordance with computer security requirements

What process does your tax administration maintain to ensure third-party providers 
are applying appropriate security controls that are consistent with computer security 
requirements for confidential information? Are the processes publicly available? If so, 
please provide a reference. If not, please provide a summary.

2.15 Media Protection

•  Processes to protect information in printed or digital form
•  Security measures used to limit media information access to 

Primary Check-list Areas

authorised users only

•  Methods for sanitising or destroying digital media prior to disposal 

or reuse

What processes does your tax administration maintain to securely store and limit access 
to confidential information in printed or digital form upon receipt from any source? How 
does your tax administration securely destroy confidential media information prior to its 
disposal? Are the processes available publicly? If so, please provide a reference. If not, 
please provide a summary.

2.16 Protection of Treaty-Exchanged data (formerly Prevention of Data Commingling)

•  Procedures to ensure treaty-exchanged files are safeguarded and 

Primary Check-list Areas

clearly labelled

•  Classification methods of treaty-exchanged files

What policies and processes does your tax administration maintain to store confidential 
information and clearly label it as treaty-exchanged after receipt from foreign Competent 
Authorities? Are these policies and processes publicly available? If so, please provide a 
reference. If not, please provide a summary.

2.17 Information Disposal Policies

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Procedures for properly disposing paper and electronic files

What procedures does your tax administration maintain for the disposal of confidential 
information? Do these procedures extend to exchanged information from foreign Competent 
Authorities? Are the procedures publicly available? If so, please provide a reference. If not, 
please provide a summary.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 585

3. Monitoring and enforcement

In  addition  to  keeping  treaty-exchanged  information  confidential,  tax 
administrations  must  be  able  to  ensure  that  its  use  will  be  limited  to  the 
purposes defined by the applicable information exchange agreement. Thus, 
compliance with an acceptable information security framework alone is not 
sufficient  to  protect  treaty-exchanged  tax  data.  In  addition,  domestic  law 
must impose penalties or sanctions for improper disclosure or use of taxpayer 
information.  T