lt to 
access sufficient information to verify the position as set out by the taxpayer. 
It  would  be  of  assistance  to  tax  authorities  if  MNE  groups  would  provide 
information on the structuring of the pool and the returns to the cash pool 
leader  and  the  members  in  the  cash  pool  as  part  of  their  transfer  pricing 
documentation.  (See  Annex  I  to  Chapter  V  of  these  Guidelines  about  the 
information to be included in the master file).

10.125.  Before any attempt is made to determine the remuneration of the cash 
pool leader and participants, it is central to the transfer pricing analysis to 
identify and examine under Chapter I guidance the economically significant 
risks  associated  to  the  cash  pooling  arrangement.  These  could  include 
liquidity  risk  and  credit  risk.  These  risks  should  be  analysed  taking  into 
account the short-term nature of the credit and debit positions within the cash 
pooling arrangement (see paragraph 10.123).

10.126.  Liquidity risk in a cash pool arrangement arises from the mismatch 
between  the  maturity  of  the  credit  and  debit  balances  of  the  cash  pool 
members. Assuming the liquidity risk associated to a cash pool requires the 
exercise of control functions beyond the mere offsetting of the credit and debit 
positions of the cash pool members. Therefore, an analysis of the decision-
making process related to the amounts of the debit and credit positions within 
the cash pool arrangement will be required to allocate the liquidity risk under 
Chapter I.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 429

10.127.  Credit  risk  refers  to  the  risk  of  loss  resulting  from  the  inability  of 
cash  pool  members  with  debit  positions  to  repay  their  cash  withdrawals. 
From  the  cash  pool  leader’s  perspective,  there  needs  to  be  a  probability 
for  it  to  incur  losses  derived  from  the  default  of  cash  pool  members  with 
debit  positions  to  bear  the  credit  risk.  Therefore,  an  examination  under 
Chapter  I  guidance  will  be  required  to  determine,  under  the  specific  facts 
and circumstances, which entity within the MNE group is exercising control 
functions and has the financial capacity to assume the credit risk associated 
with the cash pool arrangement.

C.2.3. Determining the arm’s length price of cash pooling transactions

10.128.  As  with  many  types  of  financial  transactions,  different  intent  and 
understanding  can  be  ascribed  to  the  labels  or  descriptions  attached  to 
particular transactions. Each case must be considered on its own facts and 
circumstances and in each case accurate delineation of the actual trans actions 
in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  Chapter  I  will  be  needed  before  any 
attempt to decide on an approach to pricing a transaction.

C.2.3.1. Rewarding the cash pool leader function

10.129.  The appropriate reward of the cash pool leader will depend on the 
facts  and  circumstances,  the  functions  performed,  the  assets  used  and  the 
risks assumed in facilitating a cash pooling arrangement.

10.130.  In general, a cash pool leader performs no more than a co-ordination 
or agency function with the master account being a centralised point for a 
series  of  book  entries  to  meet  the  pre-determined  target  balances  for  the 
pool members. Given such a low level of functionality, the cash pool leader’s 
remuneration as a service provider will generally be similarly limited.

10.131.  Where accurate delineation of the actual transactions determines that 
a cash pool leader is carrying on activities other than co-ordination or agency 
functions,  the  pricing  of  such  transactions  would  follow  the  approaches 
included in other parts of this guidance, as appropriate.

10.132.  The following examples illustrate the principles described above.

Example 1

10.133.  X is the parent entity of an MNE group which has subsidiaries H, 
J, K, and L which participate in a physical cash pooling arrangement with 
fellow subsidiary M acting as cash pool leader. All participants have the same 
functional currency and that is the only currency in the pool.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

430 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

10.134.  M sets up an intra-group cash pooling arrangement with an unrelated 
bank. Legal arrangements are put in place for all participants which allow 
transfers to or from M’s cash concentration account to meet a specified target 
balance for each pool participant.

10.135.  Under the cash management services agreement the bank makes any 
transfers necessary to meet the target balance for each pool participant with 
any net surplus deposited by M or any net overdrawn position being met by 
the bank lending to M. The facility that M may draw on is guaranteed by X. 
The third-party bank pays interest to, or receives interest from M based on 
the o