se the risk of double taxation or double non-

taxation when adopted unilaterally;

3.  Safe harbours potentially open avenues for inappropriate tax planning, 

and

4.  Safe harbours may raise issues of equity and uniformity.

E.4.1. Divergence from the arm’s length principle

4.111.  Where a safe harbour provides a simplified transfer pricing approach, 
it may not correspond in all cases to the most appropriate method applicable to 
the facts and circumstances of the taxpayer under the general transfer pricing 
provisions. For example, a safe harbour might require the use of a particular 
method  when  the  taxpayer  could  otherwise  have  determined  that  another 
method was the most appropriate method under the facts and circumstances. 
Such an occurrence could be considered as inconsistent with the arm’s length 
principle, which requires the use of the most appropriate method.

4.112.  Safe  harbours  involve  a  trade-off  between  strict  compliance  with 
the arm’s length principle and administrability. They are not tailored to fit 
exactly  the  varying  facts  and  circumstances  of  individual  taxpayers  and 
transactions.  The  degree  of  approximation  of  prices  determined  under  the 
safe  harbour  with  prices  determined  in  accordance  with  the  arm’s  length 
principle could be improved by collecting, collating, and frequently updating 
a pool of information regarding prices and pricing developments in respect of 
the relevant types of transactions between uncontrolled parties of the relevant 
nature.  However,  such  efforts  to  set  safe  harbour  parameters  accurately 
enough to satisfy the arm’s length principle could erode the administrative 
simplicity of the safe harbour.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

208 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

4.113.  Any  potential  disadvantages  to  taxpayers  from  safe  harbours 
diverging  from  arm’s  length  pricing  are  avoided  when  taxpayers  have  the 
option to either elect the safe harbour or price transactions in accordance with 
the arm’s length principle. With such an approach, taxpayers that believe the 
safe harbour would require them to report an amount of income exceeding 
the arm’s length amount could apply the general transfer pricing rules. While 
such an approach can limit the divergence from arm’s length pricing under a 
safe harbour regime, it would also limit the administrative benefits of the safe 
harbour to the tax administration. Moreover, tax administrations would need 
to  consider  the  potential  loss  of  tax  revenue  from  such  an  approach  where 
taxpayers will pay tax only on the lesser of the safe harbour amount or the 
arm’s length amount. Jurisdictions may also be concerned over the ability of 
taxpayers to opt in and out of a safe harbour, depending on whether the use of 
the safe harbour is favourable to the taxpayer in a particular year. Jurisdictions 
may  be  able  to  gain  greater  comfort  regarding  this  risk  by  controlling  the 
conditions  under  which  a  taxpayer  can  be  eligible  for  the  safe  harbour,  for 
example by requiring taxpayers to notify the tax authority in advance of using 
the safe harbour or to commit to its use for a certain number of years.

E.4.2.  Risk of double taxation, double non-taxation, and mutual 

agreement concerns

4.114.  One major concern raised by a safe harbour is that it may increase the 
risk of double taxation. If a tax administration sets safe harbour parameters at 
levels either above or below arm’s length prices in order to increase reported 
profits in its jurisdiction, it may induce taxpayers to modify the prices that 
they would otherwise have charged or paid to controlled parties, in order to 
avoid transfer pricing scrutiny in the safe harbour jurisdiction. The concern 
of possible overstatement of taxable income in the jurisdiction providing the 
safe harbour is greater where that jurisdiction imposes significant penalties 
for  understatement  of  tax  or  failure  to  meet  documentation  requirements, 
with the result that there may be added incentives to ensure that the transfer 
pricing is accepted in that jurisdiction without further review.

4.115. 
If  the  safe  harbour  causes  taxpayers  to  report  income  above  arm’s 
length levels, it would work to the benefit of the tax administration providing 
the safe harbour, as more taxable income would be reported by such domestic 
taxpayers. On the other hand, the safe harbour may lead to less taxable income 
being reported in the tax jurisdiction of the foreign associated enterprise that 
is the other party to the transaction. The other tax administrations may then 
challenge prices derived from the application of a safe harbour, with the result 
that the taxpayer would face the prospect of double taxation. Accordingly, any 
administrative benefits gained by the tax administration of the safe harbour 
jurisdiction would potentially be obtained at the