herefore  the  conditions  of  the  restructuring  and  of  the  post-restructuring 
arrangements (see paragraphs 9.27-9.31 for a discussion of options realistically 
available  in  the  context  of  determining  the  arm’s  length  compensation  for 
the  restructuring  itself).  For  instance,  assume  a  party  has  proved  in  the 
past  to  be  able  to  perform  well  as  a  full-fledged  distributor  performing  a 
whole  range  of  marketing  and  selling  functions,  employing  and  developing 
valuable marketing intangible assets and assuming a range of risks associated 
with  its  activity  such  as  inventory  risks,  bad  debt  risks  and  market  risks. 
Assume  that  its  distribution  contract  is  re-negotiated  and  converted  into  a 
“limited risk distribution” contract whereby it will perform limited marketing 
activities  under  the  supervision  of  a  foreign  associated  enterprise,  employ 
limited  marketing  intangibles  and  assume  limited  risks  in  its  relationship 
with  the  foreign  associated  enterprise  and  customers.  In  such  a  situation, 
the  restructured  distributor  would  not  be  in  the  same  position  as  a  newly 
established distributor.

9.103.  Where there is an ongoing business relationship between the parties 
before  and  after  the  restructuring,  there  may  also  be  an  inter-relationship 
between  on  the  one  hand  the  conditions  of  the  pre-restructuring  activities 
and/or of the restructuring itself, and on the other hand the conditions for the 
post-restructuring arrangements, as discussed in Section C below.

9.104.  Some  differences  in  the  starting  position  of  the  restructured  entity 
compared  to  the  position  of  a  newly  set  up  operation  can  relate  to  the 
established presence of the operation. For instance, if one compares a situation 
where a long-established full-fledged distributor is converted into a limited 
risk distributor with a situation where a limited risk distributor is established 
in a market where the group did not have any previous commercial presence, 
market penetration efforts might be needed for the new entrant which are not 
needed for the converted entity. This may affect the comparability analysis 
and the determination of the arm’s length remuneration in both situations.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 393

9.105.  When one compares a situation where a long-established full-fledged 
distributor is converted into a limited risk distributor with a situation where 
a  limited  risk  distributor  has  been  in  existence  in  the  market  for  the  same 
duration, there might also be differences because the full-fledged distributor 
may  have  performed  some  functions,  borne  some  expenses  (e.g.  marketing 
expenses),  assumed  some  risks  and  contributed  to  the  development  of 
some  intangibles  before  its  conversion  that  the  long-existing  “limited  risk 
distributor” may not have performed, borne, assumed or contributed to. The 
question  arises  whether  at  arm’s  length  such  additional  functions,  assets 
and  risks  should  only  affect  the  remuneration  of  the  distributor  before  its 
being converted, whether they should be taken into account to determine a 
remuneration of the transfers that take place upon the conversion (and if so 
how), whether they should affect the remuneration of the restructured limited 
risk distributor (and if so how), or a combination of these three possibilities. 
For  instance,  if  it  is  found  that  the  pre-restructuring  activities  led  the  full-
fledged  distributor  to  own  some  intangibles  while  the  long-established 
limited  risk  distributor  does  not,  the  arm’s  length  principle  may  require 
these intangibles either to be remunerated upon the restructuring if they are 
transferred by the full-fledged distributor to a foreign associated enterprise, or 
to be taken into account in the determination of the arm’s length remuneration 
of the post-restructuring activities if they are not transferred (see Section E.2 
of Part I above and Chapter VI of these Guidelines).

9.106.  Where  a  restructuring  involves  a  transfer  to  a  foreign  associated 
enterprise  of  risks  that  were  previously  assumed  by  a  taxpayer,  it  may 
be  important  to  examine  whether  the  transfer  of  risks  only  concerns  the 
future risks that will arise from the post-restructuring activities or also the 
risks existing at the time of the restructuring as a result of pre-conversion 
activities,  i.e.  there  is  a  cut-off  issue.  For  instance,  consider  a  situation  in 
which  a  distributor  was  assuming  bad  debt  risks  which  it  will  no  longer 
assume after its being restructured as a “limited risk distributor”, and that it is 
being compared with a long-established “limited risk distributor” that never 
assumed bad debt risk. It may be important when 