protection  or  exploitation  of 
intangibles to either independent enterprises or associated enterprises.

6.52.  Where  associated  enterprises  other  than  the  legal  owner  perform 
relevant  functions  that  are  anticipated  to  contribute  to  the  value  of  the 
intangibles,  they  should  be  compensated  on  an  arm’s  length  basis  for  the 
functions  they  perform  under  the  principles  set  out  in  Chapters  I-III.  The 
determination  of  arm’s  length  compensation  for  functional  contributions 
should consider the availability of comparable uncontrolled transactions, the 
importance of the functions performed to the creation of intangible value, and 
the realistically available options of the parties. The specific considerations 
described in paragraphs 6.53 to 6.58 should also be taken into account.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 263

6.53. 
In  outsourcing  transactions  between  independent  enterprises,  it 
is  usually  the  case  that  an  entity  performing  functions  on  behalf  of  the 
legal owner of the intangible that relate to the development, enhancement, 
maintenance, protection, and exploitation of the intangible will operate under 
the  control  of  such  legal  owner  (as  discussed  in  paragraph  1.65).  Because 
of  the  nature  of  the  relationships  between  associated  enterprises  that  are 
members  of  an  MNE  group,  however,  it  may  be  the  case  that  outsourced 
functions  performed  by  associated  enterprises  will  be  controlled  by  an 
entity other than the legal owner of the intangibles. In such cases, the legal 
owner of the intangible should also compensate the entity performing control 
functions related to the development, enhancement, maintenance, protection, 
and exploitation of intangibles on an arm’s length basis. In assessing what 
member of the MNE group in fact controls the performance of the relevant 
functions, principles apply analogous to those for determining control over 
risk  in  Section  D.1.2.1  of  Chapter  I.  Assessing  the  capacity  of  a  particular 
entity to exert control and the actual performance of such control functions 
will be an important part of the analysis.

6.54. 
If the legal owner neither controls nor performs the functions related 
to  the  development,  enhancement,  maintenance,  protection  or  exploitation 
of  the  intangible,  the  legal  owner  would  not  be  entitled  to  any  ongoing 
benefit  attributable  to  the  outsourced  functions.  Depending  on  the  facts, 
the arm’s length compensation required to be provided by the legal owner 
to  other  associated  enterprises  performing  or  controlling  functions  related 
to  the  development,  enhancement,  maintenance,  protection,  or  exploitation 
of  intangibles  may  comprise  any  share  of  the  total  return  derived  from 
exploitation  of  the  intangibles.  A  legal  owner  not  performing  any  relevant 
function relating to the development, enhancement, maintenance, protection 
or exploitation of the intangible will therefore not be entitled to any portion 
of  such  returns  related  to  the  performance  or  control  of  functions  relating 
to  the  development,  enhancement,  maintenance,  protection  or  exploitation 
of  the  intangible.  It  is  entitled  to  an  arm’s  length  compensation  for  any 
functions it actually performs, any assets it actually uses and risks it actually 
assumes.  See  Sections  B.2.2  to  B.2.3.  In  determining  the  functions  it 
actually performs, assets it actually uses and the risks it actually assumes the 
guidance in Section D.1.2 of Chapter I is especially relevant.

6.55.  The  relative  value  of  contributions  to  development,  enhancement, 
maintenance,  protection,  and  exploitation  of  intangibles  varies  depending 
on the particular facts of the case. The MNE group member(s) making the 
more significant contributions in a particular case should receive relatively 
greater  remuneration.  For  example,  a  company  that  merely  funds  research 
and development should have a lower anticipated return than if it both funds 
and  controls  research  and  development.  Other  things  being  equal,  a  still 
higher anticipated return should be provided if the entity funds, controls, and 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

264 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

physically performs the research and development. See also the discussion of 
funding in Section B.2.2.
6.56. 
In  considering  the  arm’s  length  compensation  for  functional 
contributions  of  various  members  of  the  MNE  group,  certain  important 
functions  will  have  special  significance.  The  nature  of  these  important 
functions in any specific case will depend on the facts and circumstances. For 
self-developed intangibles, or for self-developed or acquired intangibles that 
serve as a platform for further development activities, these more import