chieve risk diversification by insuring not 
only internal risks of its MNE group, but also including within its portfolio a 
significant proportion of external, non-group risks (while still staying within 
the definition of captive insurance in paragraph 10.190).

10.206.  Alternatively,  risk  diversification  may  be  achieved  by  covering 
internal risks when the breadth and depth of the MNE group allows the captive 
insurance to cover non-correlated or less than fully correlated risks and varied 
geographical  exposures.  Situations  where  a  captive  insurance  only  covers 
internal risks require a thorough analysis under Chapter I guidance to determine 
whether risk diversification actually occurred, i.e. whether a sufficient quantum 
and  variety  of  risks  are  covered  by  the  captive  insurance.  In  this  context, 
determining whether risk diversification occurred is a question of threshold and 
the conclusion of the analysis would be dependent upon the specific facts and 
circumstances.

10.207.  Notably,  internal  risk  diversification  might  generate  lower  capital 
efficiencies than those achieved through external risk diversification. Therefore, 
the  remuneration  of  a  captive  insurance  that  exclusively  covers  internal 
risks might be lower than when risk diversification is achieved by insuring 
external,  non-group  risks,  or  by  reinsuring  a  significant  proportion  of  the 
MNE  group’s  risks  outside  of  the  group.  In  addition,  when  the  accurate 
delineation  of  the  actual  transaction  indicates  that  the  capital  efficiencies 
achieved through the pooling of internal risks in the captive insurance arise 
from the result of group synergies created through deliberate concerted group 
actions,  the  benefits  of  such  synergies  should  generally  be  shared  by  the 
MNEs that contributed to the creation of those synergies (see Section D.8 of 
Chapter I and paragraphs 10.222 and 10.223).

10.208. In situations where the captive insurance lacks the scale to achieve 
significant risk diversification or lacks sufficient reserves to meet additional 
risks  represented  by  the  relatively  less  diversified  portfolio  of  the  MNE 
group,  the  accurate  delineation  of  the  actual  transaction  may  indicate  that 
the captive insurance is operating a business other than an insurance one (see 
guidance in Chapter VII).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

446 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

E.2.2. The assumption of the economically significant risks

10.209.  In  the  process  of  accurately  delineating  the  actual  transaction 
involving  a  captive  insurance,  the  economically  relevant  risks  associated 
with  issuing  insurance  policies,  i.e.  underwriting,  must  be  identified  with 
specificity. Part IV of the Report on the Attribution of Profits to Permanent 
Establishments7 provides a description of those risks that include, inter alia, 
insurance risk, commercial risk or investment risk. These descriptions remain 
valid for the purpose of this guidance.

10.210.  The  accurate  delineation  of  the  actual  transaction  in  scenarios 
involving captive insurance requires identifying whether the captive insurance 
is performing control functions regarding the economically significant risks 
associated to the underwriting function – in particular the insurance risk – to 
determine whether those risks should be allocated to the captive.

10.211.  Part  IV  of  the  Report  on  the  Attribution  of  Profits  to  Permanent 
Establishments  describes  the  activities  that  form  part  of  the  underwriting 
function such as setting the underwriting policies, classifying and selecting 
the insured risk, setting the premiums (pricing), the analysis of risk retention 
and the acceptance of the insured risk. These activities would imply, inter alia, 
deciding to underwrite a risk or not and under what terms and conditions, or 
whether reinsurance protection should be purchased or not. On prevailing facts 
and  circumstances,  those  activities  may  be  considered  as  control  functions 
as  described  in  paragraph  1.65  of  Chapter  I  and,  if  exercised  by  a  captive 
insurance that possesses the financial capacity to assume the risk, would lead 
to  the  allocation  of  risk  to  the  captive  insurance  under  Chapter  I  analysis. 
Notably, the mere setting of parameters or the policy environment for the risk 
would not qualify as control functions for this purpose (see paragraph 1.66 
of Chapter I, and paragraph 94 of Part IV of the Report on the Attribution of 
Profits to Permanent Establishments).

10.212.  When the captive insurance does not have access to the appropriate 
skills, expertise and resources and, therefore, the captive insurance is not found 
to exercise control functions related to the risks associated to the underwriting, 
an analysis under Chapter I, based on facts and circumstances, may conclude 
tha