ar contractual arrangement, whether written, oral or 
implied. Such licensed rights may be limited as to field of use, term of use, 
geography or in other ways. Such limited rights in intangibles are themselves 
intangibles within the meaning of Section A.1.

A.4.6. Goodwill and ongoing concern value

6.27.  Depending on the context, the term goodwill can be used to refer to 
a number of different concepts. In some accounting and business valuation 
contexts, goodwill reflects the difference between the aggregate value of an 
operating  business  and  the  sum  of  the  values  of  all  separately  identifiable 
tangible and intangible assets. Alternatively, goodwill is sometimes described 
as a representation of the future economic benefits associated with business 
assets that are not individually identified and separately recognised. In still 
other contexts goodwill is referred to as the expectation of future trade from 
existing customers. The term ongoing concern value is sometimes referred 
to  as  the  value  of  the  assembled  assets  of  an  operating  business  over  and 
above the sum of the separate values of the individual assets. It is generally 
recognised that goodwill and ongoing concern value cannot be segregated or 
transferred separately from other business assets. See paragraphs 9.68-9.70 
for a discussion of the related notion of a transfer of all of the elements of an 
ongoing concern in connection with a business restructuring.

It is not necessary for purposes of this chapter to establish a precise 
6.28. 
definition of goodwill or ongoing concern value for transfer pricing purposes 
or to define when goodwill or ongoing concern value may or may not constitute 
an  intangible.  It  is  important  to  recognise,  however,  that  an  important  and 
monetarily  significant  part  of  the  compensation  paid  between  independent 
enterprises  when  some  or  all  of  the  assets  of  an  operating  business  are 
transferred  may  represent  compensation  for  something  referred  to  in  one  or 
another of the alternative descriptions of goodwill or ongoing concern value. 
When  similar  transactions  occur  between  associated  enterprises,  such  value 
should  be  taken  into  account  in  determining  an  arm’s  length  price  for  the 
transaction.  When  the  reputational  value  sometimes  referred  to  by  the  term 
goodwill is transferred to or shared with an associated enterprise in connection 
with a transfer or licence of a trademark or other intangible that reputational 
value should be taken into account in determining appropriate compensation. If 
features of a business such as a reputation for producing high quality products 
or providing high quality service allow that business to charge higher prices 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

254 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

for goods or services than an entity lacking such reputation, and such features 
might  be  characterised  as  goodwill  or  ongoing  concern  value  under  one  or 
another definition of such terms, such features should be taken into account in 
establishing arm’s length prices for sales of goods or the provision of services 
between  associated  enterprises  whether  or  not  they  are  characterised  as 
goodwill. In other words, labelling a contribution of value from one party to 
another as goodwill or ongoing concern value does not render such contribution 
non-compensable. See paragraph 6.2.
6.29.  The requirement that goodwill and ongoing concern value be taken 
into  account  in  pricing  transactions  in  no  way  implies  that  the  residual 
measures  of  goodwill  derived  for  some  specific  accounting  or  business 
valuation  purposes  are  necessarily  appropriate  measures  of  the  price  that 
would  be  paid  for  the  transferred  business  or  licence  rights,  together  with 
their associated goodwill and ongoing concern value, by independent parties. 
Accounting  and  business  valuation  measures  of  goodwill  and  ongoing 
concern value do not, as a general rule, correspond to the arm’s length price of 
transferred goodwill or ongoing concern value in a transfer pricing analysis. 
Depending on the facts and circumstances, however, accounting valuations 
and the information supporting such valuations can provide a useful starting 
point in conducting a transfer pricing analysis. The absence of a single precise 
definition of goodwill makes it essential for taxpayers and tax administrations 
to  describe  specifically  relevant  intangibles  in  connection  with  a  transfer 
pricing  analysis,  and  to  consider  whether  independent  enterprises  would 
provide compensation for such intangibles in comparable circumstances.

A.4.7. Group synergies
6.30. 
In  some  circumstances  group  synergies  contribute  to  the  level  of 
income  earned  by  an  MNE  group.  Such  group  synergies  can  take  many 
different  forms  including  streamlined  management,  e