nancial capacity to assume the risks, such risks should be allocated to the 
enterprise  exercising  control  and  having  the  financial  capacity  to  assume 
the risk (see paragraph 1.98 of Chapter I). For instance, consider a situation 
where  Company  A  advances  funds  to  Company  B.  Consider  further  that 
the accurate delineation of the actual transaction indicates that Company A 
does not exercise control functions related to the advance of funds but that 
Company  P,  the  parent  company  of  the  MNE  group,  is  exercising  control 
over those risks, and has the financial capacity to assume such risks. Under 
Chapter  I  analysis,  Company  P  will  bear  the  consequences  of  the  playing 
out of such risks and Company A will be entitled to no more than a risk-free 
return (see Section D.1.2.1 in Chapter I).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 409

10.26.  From the perspective of the borrower, the relevant functions would 
usually  refer  to  ensuring  the  availability  of  funds  to  repay  the  principal 
and  the  interest  on  the  loan  in  due  time;  providing  collateral,  if  needed; 
and  monitoring  and  fulfilling  any  other  obligation  derived  from  the  loan 
contract (see comments upon “The lender’s and borrower’s perspectives” in 
Section C.1.1.1 of this chapter).

10.27.  In  some  instances,  the  functions  of  the  lender  and  the  borrower 
may be undertaken by the same entity in different transactions. That could 
be the case, for example, of centralised treasury activities within an MNE 
group where the treasury entity raises and provides funds to other members 
of  the  MNE  group.  In  those  circumstances,  the  functional  analysis  should 
consider the applicability of the guidance in Section C of this chapter, and, in 
particular, paragraphs 10.44 and 10.45.

B.3.3. Characteristics of financial instruments

10.28.  There is a wide variety of financial instruments in the open market 
that  present  very  different  features  and  attributes,  which  may  affect  the 
pricing of those products or services. Consequently, when pricing controlled 
transactions,  it  is  important  to  document  the  transactions’  features  and 
attributes.

10.29.  For instance in the case of a loan, those characteristics may include 
but are not limited to: the amount of the loan; its maturity; the schedule of 
repayment; the nature or purpose of the loan (trade credit, merger/acquisition, 
mortgage,  etc.);  level  of  seniority  and  subordination,  geographical  location 
of the borrower; currency; collateral provided; presence and quality of any 
guarantee; and whether the interest rate is fixed or floating.

B.3.4. Economic circumstances

10.30.  To  achieve  comparability  requires  that  the  markets  in  which  the 
independent and associated enterprises operate do not have differences that 
have a material effect on price or that appropriate adjustments can be made.

10.31.  The  prices  of  financial  instruments  may  vary  substantially  on  the 
basis  of  underlying  economic  circumstances,  for  example,  across  different 
currencies, geographic locations, local regulations, the business sector of the 
borrower and the timing of the transaction.

10.32.  Macroeconomic trends such as central bank lending rates or interbank 
reference  rates,  and  financial  market  events  like  a  credit  crisis,  can  affect 
prices. In this regard, the precise timing of the issue of a financial instrument in 
the primary market or the selection of comparable data in the secondary market 
can  therefore  be  very  significant  in  terms  of  comparability.  For  instance, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

410 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

it  is  not  likely  that  multiple  year  data  on  loan  issuances  will  provide  useful 
comparables. The opposite is more likely to be true, i.e. that the closer in timing 
a comparable loan issuance is to the issuance of the tested transaction, the less 
the likelihood of different economic factors prevailing, notwithstanding that 
particular events can cause rapid changes in lending markets.

10.33.  Currency differences are another potentially important factor. Economic 
factors  such  as  growth  rate,  inflation  rate,  and  the  volatility  of  exchange 
rates,  mean  that  otherwise  similar  financial  instruments  issued  in  different 
currencies  may  have  different  prices.  Moreover,  prices  for  financial 
instruments  in  the  same  currency  may  vary  across  financial  markets  or 
jurisdictions due to regulations such as interest rate controls, exchange rate 
controls, foreign exchange restrictions and other legal and practical restrictions 
on financial market access.

B.3.5. Business strategies

10.34.  Business strategies must also be examined in accurately delineating 
the  actual  financial  transaction  and  in  determining  comparability