 commentators note that the transactional 
net margin method would be less sensitive to differences in volume, extent 
and  complexity  of  functions  and  operating  expenses.  On  the  other  hand, 
the  transactional  net  margin  method  may  be  more  sensitive  than  the  cost 
plus  or  resale  price  methods  to  differences  in  capacity  utilisation,  because 
differences  in  the  levels  of  absorption  of  indirect  fixed  costs  (e.g.  fixed 
manufacturing costs or fixed distribution costs) would affect the net profit but 
may not affect the gross margin or gross mark-up on costs if not reflected in 
price differences, as illustrated below.

Illustration 3: Effect of a difference in manufacturers’ capacity utilisation

The example below is for illustration only and is not intended to provide 
any guidance on the selection of the transfer pricing method or of comparables, 
or on arm’s length rates of return, but only to illustrate the effects of differences 
between the capacity utilisation of a manufacturer and of comparables.

Case 1
The manufacturer 
operates at 
full capacity: 
1 000 units 
per year

Case 2
The manufacturer operates 
at excess capacity i.e. only 
manufactures 80% of what 
it could manufacture at full 
capacity: 800 units per year

1 000

800

Variable: 750
Fixed: 50
Total: 800

Variable: 600
Fixed: 50
Total: 650

200 (25%)

150

150 (23%)

150

In monetary units (m.u.)

Sales of manufactured products (For illustration 
purposes, assume both manufacturers have 
the same total capacity, and that they both 
manufacture and sell the same product on the 
same market which have the same price of 
1 m.u. per manufactured product).*

Cost of goods sold: direct costs plus standard 
allocation of indirect manufacturing costs. 
(For illustration purposes, assume both 
manufacturers have the same variable cost of 
goods sold per manufactured unit, i.e. 0.75 m.u. 
per manufactured product, and fixed personnel 
costs of 50).

Gross mark-up on cost of goods sold

Indirect costs (For illustration purposes, assume 
both manufacturers have the same indirect costs)

Net profit margin

50 (5%)

Break-even

* This assumes that the arm’s length price of the manufactured products is not affected by 
the manufacturer’s capacity utilisation.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER II: SENSITIVITy OF GROSS AND NET PROFIT INDICATORS – 465

5. 
In  Illustration  3,  if  a  controlled  transaction  is  performed  as  in 
case 1 while the third party “comparables” are operating as in case 2, and 
assuming that the difference in the capacity utilisation is not identified due 
to insufficiently detailed information on the third party “comparables”, then 
the risk of error when applying a gross margin method could amount to 16 
(2% × 800) instead of 50 (5% × 1 000) if a net margin method is applied. 
This illustrates the fact that net profit indicators can be more sensitive than 
gross  mark-ups  or  gross  margins  to  differences  in  the  capacity  utilisation, 
depending on the facts and circumstances of the case and in particular on the 
proportion of fixed and variable costs and on whether it is the taxpayer or the 
“comparable” which is in an over-capacity situation.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD – 467

Annex II to Chapter II 

Examples to illustrate the guidance on the 
transactional profit split method

See Chapter II, Part III, Section C of these Guidelines for general guidance on the 
application of the profit split method.

The  adjustments  and  assumptions  about  arm’s  length  arrangements  in  the 
examples  that  follow  are  intended  for  illustrative  purposes  only  and  should  not 
be  taken  as  prescribing  adjustments  and  arm’s  length  arrangements  in  actual 
cases or particular industries. They are necessarily presented with limited facts. 
The  identification  of  the  presence  of  one  of  the  three  factors  (as  identified  in 
paragraphs  2.125  to  2.143)  indicating  that  the  transactional  profit  split  method 
may  be  the  most  appropriate  transfer  pricing  method,  does  not  mean  that  one 
or both of the other factors may not also be present. For example, in a situation 
in  which  unique  and  valuable  contributions  are  identified  as  being  made  by 
each party to the transaction, the business operations of the parties may also be 
highly integrated and the parties may also share the assumption of economically 
significant risks or separate assumption of closely related risks.

While  the  examples  seek  to  demonstrate  the  principles  of  the  sections  of  the 
Guidelines  to  which  they  refer,  those  principles  must  be  applied  in  each  case 
according  to  the  specific  facts  and  circumstances  of  that  case.  As  such,  the 
examples should not be used to interpret superficially similar cases.

Example 1

Company A is the p