d Financial Statements for the short fiscal period is also 
expected to file the CbC report for Group E. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
 
 
48 |   

1.6 Should Group B report all or a pro rata share of Group E’s financial data?  

The determination as to the period for which the financial data of Group E should be included in the 
CbC  report  of  Group  B  (e.g.  pro  rata  share  or  full  year)  should  be  governed  by  the  accounting 
principles/standards  (as  determined  in  accordance  with  the  guidance  to  identify  the  accounting 
principles/standards  for  determining  the  existence  and  membership  of  a  group)  applied  to  Group  B. 
Thus,  if  the  accounting  principles/standards  applicable  to  Group  B  require  Group  B’s  Consolidated 
Financial Statements to incorporate a pro rata share of the financial data of Group E, the CbC report of 
Group B should also include a pro rata share of the financial data of the Group E. 

Fact Pattern #4 

Y1, Group S sells a sub-group of its entities to Group B. The total consolidated group revenue of Group B for Y0 
is less than EUR 750 million i.e. Group B is an Excluded MNE Group.   

1.7 Should the amount of total consolidated group revenues in Y0 of Group S be adjusted due to its 
selling the sub-group? 

The amount of total consolidated group revenue of the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the Reporting 
Fiscal Year (i.e. Y0) should not be adjusted to take into account the sale that occurred in Y1. If total 
consolidated group revenue in Y0 of Group S is equal to or greater than 750 million Euros, Group S 
would not qualify as an Excluded MNE Group for Y1. Alternatively, if total consolidated group revenue 
in Y0 is less than 750 million Euros, Group S remains an Excluded MNE Group for Y1. 

1.8 To determine for Y1 whether it is an Excluded MNE Group under Article 1.3 of the Model Legislation, 
should Group B include in the amount of total consolidated group revenues for Y0 some or all of the 
revenues of the acquired sub-group of entities?  

The amount of total consolidated group revenue of the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the Reporting 
Fiscal Year (i.e. Y0) should not be adjusted to take into account the acquisition that occurred in Y1. 
Group B should continue to qualify as an Excluded MNE Group based on the total consolidated group 
revenue of the Group for the preceding year. 

Fact Pattern #5 

In Y1, Group S sells a sub-group of entities to Group B. The total consolidated group revenue of each of Group B 
and Group S for Y0 is not less than EUR 750 million i.e. for Y1 purposes they are both non-Excluded MNE 
Groups 

1.9 For Y1, should Group S’s CbC report include any financial data ofthe sub-group of entities sold to 
Group B in Y1? 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
 
 
 
  | 49 

The determination as to whether any financial data of the sub-group of entities sold to Group B in Y1 
should  be  included  in  the  CbC  report  of  Group  S  for  Y1  should  be  governed  by  the  accounting 
principles/standards  (as  determined  in  accordance  with  the  guidance  to  identify  the  accounting 
principles/standards for determining the existence and membership of a group) applicable to Group S. 
Thus,  if  the  governing  accounting  principles/standards  applied  to  Group  S  require  Group  S’s 
Consolidated Financial Statements to incorporate a pro rata share of the financial data of the sub-group 
of  entities  sold  to  Group  B,  the  CbC  report  of  Group  S  should  also  include  a  pro  rata  share  of  the 
financial data of the sub-group. 

1.10 For Y1, should Group B include only a pro rata share of the acquired sub-group’s financial data in 
its CbC report?  

The determination as to the period for which financial data of the sub-group should be included in the 
CbC  report  of  Group  B  (e.g.  a  pro  rata  share  or  full  year)  should  be  governed  by  the  accounting 
principles/standards  (as  determined  in  accordance  with  the  guidance  to  identify  the  accounting 
principles/standards for determining the existence and membership of a group) applicable to Group B. 
Thus,  if  the  governing  accounting  principles/standards  applied  to  Group  B  require  Group  B’s 
Consolidated Financial Statements to incorporate a pro rata share of the financial data of the sub-group, 
the CbC report of Group B should also include a pro rata share of the financial data of the sub-group. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
50 |   

Table summarising the interpretation on Mergers/Demergers/Acquisitions (September 2018) 

Events and Consequences in Fact Patterns #1-#5 of Mergers/Acquisitions/Demergers 

Event in 

Consequence (YI) 

Fact Pattern #1 
Demerger 

Reference Year (Y0) 
The total consolidated group 