l, financial advice, accounting, auditing, legal, 
factoring, computer services; financial services such as supervision of cash 
flows and solvency, capital increases, loan contracts, management of interest 
and exchange rate risks, and refinancing; assistance in the fields of production, 
buying,  distribution  and  marketing;  and  services  in  staff  matters  such  as 
recruitment  and  training.  Group  service  centres  also  often  carry  out  order 
management, customer service and call centres, research and development or 
administer and protect intangible property for all or part of the MNE group. 
These  types  of  activities  ordinarily  will  be  considered  intra-group  services 
because they are the type of activities that independent enterprises would have 
been willing to pay for or to perform for themselves.

B.1.6. Form of the remuneration

7.15. 
In considering whether a charge for the provision of services would be 
made between independent enterprises, it would also be relevant to consider 
the  form  that  an  arm’s  length  consideration  would  take  had  the  transaction 
occurred  between  independent  enterprises  dealing  at  arm’s  length.  For 
example, in respect of financial services such as loans, foreign exchange and 
hedging, all of the remuneration may be built into the spread and it would not 
be appropriate to expect a further service fee to be charged if such were the 
case. Similarly, in some buying or procurement services a commission element 
may be incorporated in the price of the product or services procured, and a 
separate service fee may not be appropriate.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES – 319

7.16.  Another issue arises with respect to services provided “on call”. The 
question is whether the availability of such services is itself a separate service 
for  which  an  arm’s  length  charge  (in  addition  to  any  charge  for  services 
actually rendered) should be determined. A parent company or one or more 
group service centres may be on hand to provide services such as financial, 
managerial, technical, legal or tax advice and assistance to members of the 
group  at  any  time.  In  that  case,  a  service  may  be  rendered  to  associated 
enterprises by having staff, equipment, etc., available. An intra-group service 
would exist to the extent that it would be reasonable to expect an independent 
enterprise  in  comparable  circumstances  to  incur  “standby”  charges  to 
ensure  the  availability  of  the  services  when  the  need  for  them  arises.  It  is 
not unknown, for example, for an independent enterprise to pay an annual 
“retainer” fee to a firm of lawyers to ensure entitlement to legal advice and 
representation if litigation is brought. Another example is a service contract 
for priority computer network repair in the event of a breakdown.

7.17. 
These services may be available on call and they may vary in amount 
and importance from year to year. It is unlikely that an independent enterprise 
would  incur  stand-by  charges  where  the  potential  need  for  the  service  was 
remote, where the advantage of having services on-call was negligible, or where 
the on-call services could be obtained promptly and readily from other sources 
without  the  need  for  stand-by  arrangements.  Thus,  the  benefit  conferred  on 
a group company by the on-call arrangements should be considered, perhaps 
by looking at the extent to which the services have been used over a period of 
several years rather than solely for the year in which a charge is to be made, 
before determining that an intra-group service is being provided.

7.18.  The  fact  that  a  payment  was  made  to  an  associated  enterprise  for 
purported services can be useful in determining whether services were in fact 
provided, but the mere description of a payment as, for example, “management 
fees” should not be expected to be treated as prima facie evidence that such 
services have been rendered. At the same time, the absence of payments or 
contractual agreements does not automatically lead to the conclusion that no 
intra-group services have been rendered.

B.2. Determining an arm’s length charge

B.2.1. In general

7.19.  Once it is determined that an intra-group service has been rendered, 
it  is  necessary,  as  for  other  types  of  intra-group  transfers,  to  determine 
whether  the  amount  of  the  charge,  if  any,  is  in  accordance  with  the  arm’s 
length principle. This means that the charge for intra-group services should 
be  that  which  would  have  been  made  and  accepted  between  independent 
enterprises  in  comparable  circumstances.  Consequently,  such  transactions 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

320 – CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES

should  not  be  treated  differently  for  tax  purposes  from  comparable  trans-
actions between independent enterprises, simply because th