s and on the development of new technologies on behalf 
of Company S. The agreement provides that Company T will be compensated 
for its research services by payments equal to its cost plus a mark-up, and that 
all rights to intangibles developed or enhanced under the research agreement 
will belong to Company S. As a result, Company S will fund all future research 
and will assume the financial risk that some or all of the future research will 
not  lead  to  the  development  of  commercially  viable  products.  Company  S 
has  a  large  research  staff,  including  management  personnel  responsible  for 
technologies of the type acquired from Company T. Following the transactions 
in question, the Company S research and management personnel assume full 
management  responsibility  for  the  direction  and  control  of  the  work  of  the 
Company T research staff. Company S approves new projects, develops and 
plans budgets and in other respects controls the ongoing research work carried 
on  at  Company  T.  All  company  T  research  personnel  will  continue  to  be 
employees of Company T and will be devoted exclusively to providing services 
under the research agreement with Company S.

85. 
In conducting a transfer pricing analysis of the arm’s length price to 
be paid by Company S for intangibles transferred by Company T, and of the 
price to be paid for ongoing R&D services to be provided by Company T, it is 
important to identify the specific intangibles transferred to Company S and 
those retained by Company T. The definitions and valuations of intangibles 
contained in the purchase price allocation are not determinative for transfer 
pricing  purposes.  The  100  paid  by  Birincil  for  the  shares  of  Company  T 
represents  an  arm’s  length  price  for  shares  of  the  company  and  provides 
useful information regarding the value of the business of Company T. The full 
value of that business should be reflected either in the value of the tangible 
and intangible assets transferred to Company S or in the value of the tangible 
and  intangible  assets  and  workforce  retained  by  Company  T.  Depending 
on  the  facts,  a  substantial  portion  of  the  value  described  in  the  purchase 
price  allocation  as  goodwill  of  Company  T  may  have  been  transferred  to 
Company  S  together  with  the  other  Company  T  intangibles.  Depending  on 
the facts, some portion of the value described in the purchase price allocation 
as goodwill may also have been retained by Company T. Under arm’s length 
transfer pricing principles, Company T should be entitled to compensation for 
such value, either as part of the price paid by Company S for the transferred 
rights  to  technology  intangibles,  or  through  the  compensation  Company  T 
is  paid  in  years  following  the  transaction  for  the  R&D  services  of  its 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

626 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES

workforce. It should generally be assumed that value does not disappear, nor 
is it destroyed, as part of an internal business restructuring. If the transfer of 
intangibles to Company S had been separated in time from the acquisition, a 
separate inquiry would be required regarding any intervening appreciation or 
depreciation in the value of the transferred intangibles.

Example 24

86. 
Zhu is a company engaged in software development consulting. In 
the past Zhu has developed software supporting ATM transactions for client 
Bank A. In the process of doing so, Zhu created and retained an interest in 
proprietary  copyrighted  software  code  that  is  potentially  suitable  for  use 
by  other  similarly  situated  banking  clients,  albeit  with  some  revision  and 
customisation.

Assume  that  Company  S,  an  associated  enterprise  of  Zhu,  enters 
87. 
into  a  separate  agreement  to  develop  software  supporting  ATM  operations 
for  another  bank,  Bank  B.  Zhu  agrees  to  support  its  associated  enterprise 
by providing employees who worked on the Bank A engagement to work on 
Company S’s Bank B engagement. Those employees have access to software 
designs  and  know-how  developed  in  the  Bank  A  engagement,  including 
proprietary software code. That code and the services of the Zhu employees 
are utilised by Company S in executing its Bank B engagement. Ultimately, 
Bank  B  is  provided  by  Company  S  with  a  software  system  for  managing 
its  ATM  network,  including  the  necessary  licence  to  utilise  the  software 
developed in the project. Portions of the proprietary code developed by Zhu in 
its Bank A engagement are embedded in the software provided by Company S 
to  Bank  B.  The  code  developed  in  the  Bank  A  engagement  and  embedded 
in the Bank B software would be sufficiently extensive to justify a claim of 
copyright infringement if copied on an unauthorised basis by a third party.

88. 
A transfer pricing analysis 