 be attached to the making of interest 
payments,  if  any,  and  whether  interest  is  to  be  capitalised  would  generally 
need to be addressed. The constructive loan approach may have an effect not 
only for the year to which a primary adjustment relates but to subsequent years 
until such time as the constructive loan is considered by the tax administration 
asserting the secondary adjustment to have been repaid.

4.70.  A  secondary  adjustment  may  result  in  double  taxation  unless  a 
corresponding credit or some other form of relief is provided by the other country 
for  the  additional  tax  liability  that  may  result  from  a  secondary  adjustment. 
Where a secondary adjustment takes the form of a constructive dividend any 
withholding tax which is then imposed may not be relievable because there may 
not be a deemed receipt under the domestic legislation of the other jurisdiction.
4.71.  The Commentary on paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax 
Convention notes that the Article does not deal with secondary adjustments, 
and thus it neither forbids nor requires tax administrations to make secondary 
adjustments. In a broad sense, the purpose of double tax agreements can be 
stated as being for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal 
evasion with respect to taxes on income and capital. Many jurisdictions do not 
make  secondary  adjustments  either  as  a  matter  of  practice  or  because  their 
respective domestic provisions do not permit them to do so. Some jurisdictions 
might  refuse  to  grant  relief  in  respect  of  other  jurisdictions’  secondary 
adjustments and indeed they are not required to do so under Article 9.
4.72. 
Secondary  adjustments  are  rejected  by  some  jurisdictions  because  of 
the  practical  difficulties  they  present.  For  example,  if  a  primary  adjustment 
is  made  between  brother-sister  companies,  the  secondary  adjustment  may 
involve  a  hypothetical  dividend  from  one  of  those  companies  up  a  chain  to  a 
common  parent,  followed  by  constructive  equity  contributions  down  another 
chain  of  ownership  to  reach  the  other  company  involved  in  the  transaction. 
Many hypothetical transactions might be created, raising questions whether tax 
consequences  should  be  triggered  in  other  jurisdictions  besides  those  involved 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 197

in the transaction for which the primary adjustment was made. This might be 
avoided if the secondary transaction were a loan, but constructive loans are not 
used by most jurisdictions for this purpose and they carry their own complications 
because  of  issues  relating  to  imputed  interest.  It  would  be  inappropriate  for 
minority  shareholders  that  are  not  parties  to  the  controlled  transactions  and 
that have accordingly not received excess cash to be considered recipients of a 
constructive dividend, even though a non-pro-rata dividend might be considered 
inconsistent with the requirements of applicable corporate law. In addition, as a 
result of the interaction with the foreign tax credit system, a secondary adjustment 
may excessively reduce the overall tax burden of the MNE group.
In  light  of  the  foregoing  difficulties,  tax  administrations,  when 
4.73. 
secondary  adjustments  are  considered  necessary,  are  encouraged  to 
structure  such  adjustments  in  a  way  that  the  possibility  of  double  taxation 
as a consequence thereof would be minimised, except where the taxpayer’s 
behaviour suggests an intent to disguise a dividend for purposes of avoiding 
withholding tax. In addition, jurisdictions in the process of formulating or 
reviewing policy on this matter are recommended to take into consideration 
the above-mentioned difficulties.
Some jurisdictions that have adopted secondary adjustments also give 
4.74. 
the taxpayer receiving the primary adjustment another option that allows the 
taxpayer to avoid the secondary adjustment by having the taxpayer arrange 
for the MNE group of which it is a member to repatriate the excess profits to 
enable the taxpayer to conform its accounts to the primary adjustment. The 
repatriation could be effected either by setting up an account receivable or by 
reclassifying other transfers, such as dividend payments where the adjustment 
is between parent and subsidiary, as a payment of additional transfer price 
(where the original price was too low) or as a refund of transfer price (where 
the original price was too high).
4.75.  Where a repatriation involves reclassifying a dividend payment, the 
amount of the dividend (up to the amount of the primary adjustment) would 
be  excluded  from  the  recipient’s  gross  income  (because  it  would  already 
have been accounted for through the primary adjustment). The consequences 
would be that the recipient would lose any indirect tax credit (or benefi