ree years between the Convention 
being ratified by a jurisdiction, and that jurisdiction beginning to receive CbC reports under exchange of 
information, as described below: 

1 September 2019 – Instrument of ratification of the Convention deposited 

1 January 2020 – Convention enters into force 

1 January 2021 – Convention in effect 

31 December 2021 – End of reporting fiscal year 2021, the first reporting fiscal year for which 
the Convention is in effect 

31 December 2022 – Typical CbC reporting filing deadline for reporting fiscal year 2021 (12 
months after the end of the reporting fiscal year) 

31 March 2023 (or 30 June 2023) – The first exchanges of CbC reports under the Convention, 
for  reporting  fiscal  year  2021  (assuming  all  conditions  for  the  exchange  of  CbC  reports  are 
met).  

This period can be significantly reduced with respect to the exchange of CbC reports between jurisdictions 
that have lodged a unilateral declaration stating that they intend the Convention to have effect for earlier 
periods with respect to the exchange of CbC reports, in line with the first exchanges contemplated under 
the CbC MCAA. Where a jurisdiction lodges such a unilateral declaration on the same date as it ratifies 
the Convention, the timeframe for the exchange of reports under the Convention is modified as follows: 

1  September  2019  –  Instrument  of  ratification  of  the  Convention  deposited  and  unilateral 
declaration lodged 

1  January  2020  –  Convention  enters  into  force  and  immediately  comes  into  effect  for  all 
exchanges contemplated by the jurisdiction in the CbC MCAA 

31 March 2020 (or 30 June 2020) - The first exchanges of CbC reports under the Convention 
by  other  jurisdictions  that  have  submitted  a  unilateral  declaration  and  which  have  the  CbC 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
  | 43 

MCAA in effect for reporting fiscal year 2018 (assuming all conditions for the exchange of CbC 
reports are met). 

The submission of a unilateral declaration can thus bring forward the first exchanges of CbC reports by up 
to  three  years,  where  conditions  for  the  exchange  of  CbC  reports  are  met.  This  is  only  effective  for 
exchanges of CbC reports with jurisdictions that have lodged a unilateral declaration. However, a large 
number  of  jurisdictions,  including  most  OECD  members  and  G20  economies,  have  lodged  unilateral 
declarations, and these are likely to cover the significant majority of CbC reports to be exchanged under 
the Convention.  

In light of this, all jurisdictions that have not yet ratified the Convention are encouraged to consider lodging 
a unilateral declaration at the same time as they deposit the instrument of ratification. Jurisdictions that 
have already ratified the Convention, but for which the Convention is not yet in effect, are encouraged to 
lodge a unilateral declaration as soon as possible. Jurisdictions that already have the Convention in effect 
are also encouraged to lodge a unilateral declaration if they have not already done so, to facilitate the early 
exchange of CbC reports with other jurisdictions that meet the conditions set out in the BEPS Action 13 
report. However, it is recognised that, for some jurisdictions, lodging a unilateral declaration may not be 
feasible given that  the domestic processes necessary for such an action may  be lengthy and resource 
intensive. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
 
44 |   

Notes

1 The list of jurisdictions at the end of this guidance is dynamic and is updated periodically. 

2 A necessary condition for having a Qualifying Competent Authority Agreement in effect is that there is 
also an International Agreement in effect between the jurisdiction of tax residence of the UPE and the Local 
Jurisdiction. 

3 If the tax administration in the jurisdiction where the UPE or Constituent Entity (as applicable) is resident 
for tax purposes chooses not to require notifications or has not specified a procedure for providing such 
notifications, then this condition will not be relevant. Furthermore, where such notification is required, the 
square brackets included in this section reflect that it is at the discretion of the jurisdiction to choose the 
notification date most appropriate in its domestic circumstances, for example the date that would coincide 
with the date for filing of a CbC Report.   

4 www.oecd.org/tax/beps/beps-action-13-on-country-by-country-reporting-appropriate-use-of-information-
in-CbC-reports.pdf.  

5 It is noted that currently this would not be possible for jurisdictions that are EU Member States, which are 
obliged to require local filing within 12 months of the end of the reporting fiscal year under the terms of 
Directive 2016/881/EU. 

6 The minimum standard also anticipates the automatic exchange of a C