of  the  new 
generation of products is heavily dependent upon the performance of the key 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD – 475

component made by Company B. The key component is specifically tailored 
for the new generation of products and cannot be used in any other products.

47. 
The  key  component  was  developed  entirely  by  Company  B.  The 
accurate delineation of the transaction determines that Company B performs 
all the control functions and assumed all the risks in relation to the development 
of the component, with no involvement by Company A.

48. 
The accurate delineation of the transaction also finds that Company A 
performs  all  the  control  functions  and  assumed  all  the  risks  in  relation 
to  the  overall  production  and  sale  of  the  new  generation  of  products. 
Company A cannot control (and thus does not assume) the risks relating to 
the performance of the key component.

49. 
In  this  example,  it  is  determined  that  while  Company  A  and 
Company B each assumes separate economically significant risks, those risks 
are highly inter-dependent. As a result, it is determined that the transactional 
profit split method is the most appropriate method.

50. 
If  it  is  also  found  that  the  most  appropriate  way  of  applying  the 
transactional profit split method in this case is by splitting revenues or gross 
profits from Company A’s sales of the new generation product, each party 
would bear the consequences of the playing out of risks relating to their own 
operating costs.

Example 11

51. 
The  success  of  an  electronics  product  is  linked  to  the  innovative 
technological design both of its electronic processes and of its major component. 
That  component  is  designed  and  manufactured  by  associated  company  A;  is 
transferred to associated company B which designs and manufactures the rest 
of the product; and is distributed by associated company C. Information exists 
to verify by means of a resale price method that the distribution functions, assets 
and risks of Company C are being appropriately rewarded by the transfer price 
of the finished product sold from B to C.

52. 
The  most  appropriate  method  to  price  the  component  transferred 
from  A  to  B  may  be  a  CUP,  if  a  sufficiently  similar  comparable  could  be 
found. See paragraph 2.15 of the Guidelines. However, since the component 
transferred from A to B reflects the innovative technological advance enjoyed 
by company A in this market, which is found to be a unique and valuable 
contribution by company A, in this example it proves impossible (after the 
appropriate functional and comparability analyses have been carried out) to 
find a reliable CUP to estimate the correct price that A could command at 
arm’s length for its product. Calculating a return on A’s manufacturing costs 
could however provide an estimate of the profit element which would reward 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

476 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD

A’s manufacturing functions, ignoring the profit element attributable to the 
unique and valuable intangible used therein. A similar calculation could be 
performed on company B’s manufacturing costs, to give an estimate of B’s 
profit derived from its manufacturing functions, ignoring the profit element 
attributable  to  its  unique  and  valuable  intangible.  Since  B’s  selling  price 
to C is known and is accepted as an arm’s length price, the amount of the 
residual  profit  accrued  by  A  and  B  together  from  the  exploitation  of  their 
respective unique and valuable intangibles can be determined. At this stage 
the proportion of this residual profit properly attributable to each enterprise 
remains undetermined.

The  residual  profit  may  be  split  based  on  an  analysis  of  the  facts 
53. 
and  circumstances  that  might  indicate  how  the  additional  reward  would 
have been allocated at arm’s length. The R&D activity of each company is 
directed towards technological design relating to the same class of item, and 
it  is  established  for  the  purposes  of  this  example  that  the  relative  amounts 
of  R&D  expenditure  reliably  measure  the  relative  value  of  the  companies’ 
contributions. See paragraph 2.145 of the Guidelines. This means that each 
company’s  unique  and  valuable  contribution  may  reliably  be  measured  by 
their relative expenditure on research and development, so that, if A’s R&D 
expenditure is 15 and B’s 10, giving a combined R&D expenditure of 25, the 
residual could be split 15/25 for A and 10/25 for B.

54. 

Some figures may assist in following the example:

a) Profit & loss of A and B

Sales

Less:
Purchases

Manufacturing costs  
Gross profits

Less: 
R&D

Operating expenses 
Net profit

A

B

50

100

(10)

(15)

25

(25)

0

15

10

(50)

(20)

30

(20)

10

10
