ore,  countries 
participating  in  the  OECD/G20  Base  Erosion  and  Profit  Shifting  (BEPS)  Project  have 
developed  the  following  guidance  on  implementation  of  transfer  pricing  documentation 
and Country-by-Country Reporting.

E.1. Master file and Local file

49. 
It  is  recommended  that  the  master  file  and  local  file  elements  of  the  transfer 
pricing  documentation  standard  be  implemented  through  local  country  legislation  or 
administrative procedures and that the master file and local file be filed directly with the 
tax  administrations  in  each  relevant  jurisdiction  as  required  by  those  administrations. 
Countries participating in the OECD/G20 BEPS Project agree that with regard to the local 
file  and  the  master  file  confidentiality  and  consistent  use  of  the  standards  contained  in 
Annex I and Annex II of Chapter v of these Guidelines should be taken into account when 
introducing these elements in local country legislation or administrative procedures.

E.2. Country-by-Country Report

E.2.1. Timing: When should the Country-by-Country Reporting requirement start?

50. 
It is recommended that the first Country-by-Country Reports be required to be filed 
for MNE fiscal years beginning on or after 1 January 2016. however, it is acknowledged 
that  some  jurisdictions  may  need  time  to  follow  their  particular  domestic  legislative 
process in order to make necessary adjustments to the law. In order to assist countries in 
preparing timely legislation, model legislation requiring ultimate parent entities of MNE 

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

 ChAPTER v OF ThE TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES ON DOCUMENTATION – 21

groups to file the Country-by-Country Report in their jurisdiction of residence has been 
developed  (see  Annex  Iv  to  Chapter  v  of  these  Guidelines).  Jurisdictions  will  be  able 
to adapt this model legislation to their own legal systems. Given the recommendation in 
paragraph 31 that MNEs be allowed one year from the close of the fiscal year to which 
the  Country-by-Country  Report  relates  to  prepare  and  file  the  Country-by-Country 
Report,  this  recommendation  means  that  the  first  Country-by-Country  Reports  would 
be filed by 31 December 2017. For MNEs with a fiscal year ending on a date other than 
31  December, the first Country-by-Country Reports would be required to be filed later 
in 2018, twelve months after the close of the relevant MNE fiscal year, and would report 
on the MNE group’s first fiscal year beginning after 1 January 2016. It follows from this 
recommendation that the countries participating in the OECD/G20 BEPS Project agree that 
they will not require filing of a Country-by-Country Report based on the new template for 
MNE fiscal years beginning prior to 1 January 2016. The MNE fiscal year relates to the 
consolidated reporting period for financial statement purposes and not to taxable years or 
to the financial reporting periods of individual subsidiaries.

E.2.2. Which MNE groups should be required to file the Country-by-Country 
Report?

It is recommended that all MNE groups be required to file the Country-by-Country 

51. 
Report each year except as follows.

52.  There would be an exemption from the general filing requirement for MNE groups 
with annual consolidated group revenue in the immediately preceding fiscal year of less 
than  EUR  750  million  or  a  near  equivalent  amount  in  domestic  currency  as  of  January 
2015. Thus, for example, if an MNE that keeps its financial accounts on a calendar year 
basis  has  EUR  625  million  in  consolidated  group  revenue  for  its  2015  calendar  year,  it 
would not be required to file the Country-by-Country Report in any country with respect 
to its fiscal year ending 31 December 2016.

53. 
It  is  believed  that  the  exemption  described  in  paragraph  52,  which  provides  a 
threshold of EUR 750 million, will exclude approximately 85 to 90 percent of MNE groups 
from  the  requirement  to  file  the  Country-by-Country  Report,  but  that  the  Country-by-
Country Report will nevertheless be filed by MNE groups controlling approximately 90 
percent of corporate revenues. The prescribed exemption threshold therefore represents an 
appropriate balancing of reporting burden and benefit to tax administrations.

It  is  the  intention  of  the  countries  participating  in  the  OECD/G20  BEPS  Project 
54. 
to  reconsider  the  appropriateness  of  the  applicable  revenue  threshold  described  in  the 
preceding paragraph in connection with their 2020 review of implementation of the new 
standard, including whether additional or different data should be reported.

55. 
It  is  considered  that  no  exemptions  from  filing  the  Country-by-Country  Report 
should  be  adopted  apart  from  the  exemptions  outlined  in  this  section.  In  particular,  no 
special industry exem