 account.  Jurisdictions  may  thus  allow  some  flexibility  during  a  short 
transitional period. 

Definition of related parties (April 2017)  

2.1 Which entities are considered to be related parties for purposes of reporting related 
party revenues? 

For the third column of Table 1 of the CbC report, the related parties, which are defined as “associated 
enterprises” in the Action 13 report, should be interpreted as the Constituent Entities listed in Table 2 of 
the CbC report.  

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
8 |   

Aggregated data or consolidated data to be reported per jurisdiction (July 2017)  

3.1 If there is more than one Constituent Entity in a jurisdiction, should the aggregated 
data be reported or should the data that is reported for the jurisdiction consist of 
consolidated data which eliminates intra-jurisdiction transactions between Constituent 
Entities in that jurisdiction? 

The Action 13 Report and the model legislation contemplate that reporting will occur on an aggregate basis 
at a jurisdictional level. Accordingly, data should be reported on an aggregated basis, regardless of whether 
the transactions occurred cross-border or within the jurisdiction, or between related parties or unrelated 
parties.  This  guidance  will  be  particularly  relevant  for  the  columns  on  related  party  revenues  and  total 
revenues. An MNE Group may use the notes section in Table 3 to explain the data if it wishes to do so.  

Where  the  jurisdiction  of  the  UPE  has  a  system  of  taxation  for  corporate  groups  which  includes 
consolidated reporting for tax purposes, and the consolidation eliminates intra-group transactions at the 
level of individual line items, that jurisdiction may allow taxpayers an option to complete the CbC report 
using  consolidated  data  at  the  jurisdictional  level,  as  long  as  consolidated  data  are  reported  for  each 
jurisdiction in Table 1 of the CbC report and consolidation is used consistently across the years. Taxpayers 
choosing this option should use the following wording in Table 3 that (or in local language): "This report 
uses consolidated data at the jurisdictional level for reporting the data in Table 1", and should specify the 
columns in Table 1 in which the consolidated data is different than if aggregated data were reported.  

Inclusive Framework members are expected to implement the above guidance (reporting on an aggregated 
basis only, apart from the exception described above) as soon as possible, taking into account their specific 
domestic circumstances. It is recognised that time may be needed for MNE Groups to make the necessary 
adjustments, for example  in situations where guidance permitting the reporting  of consolidated data for 
intra-jurisdiction transactions has already been issued. Jurisdictions may thus allow some flexibility during 
a  short  transitional  period  (i.e.  for  fiscal  years  starting  in  2016).  Taxpayers  reporting  consolidated  data 
under  this  transitional  mechanism  should  provide  the  same  information  in  Table  3  as  described  in  the 
previous paragraph. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
  | 9 

Amount of Income Tax Accrued and Income Tax Paid (September 2017) 

4.1 Where the income tax for a fiscal year has been paid in advance (e.g., preliminary tax 
assessments based on an estimate of the year's corporate income tax), should the 
amount reported in the "Income Tax Accrued-Current Year " column be linked to the 
amount reported in the "Income Tax Paid (on Cash Basis)" column of Table 1?" 

Income  Tax  Accrued-Current  Year  is  the  amount  of  accrued  current  tax  expense  recorded  on  taxable 
profits or losses for the Reporting Fiscal Year of all Constituent Entities resident for tax purposes in the 
relevant tax jurisdiction irrespective of whether or not the tax has been paid (e.g. based on a preliminary 
tax assessment). 

Income Tax Paid (on Cash Basis) is the amount of the taxes actually paid during the Reporting Fiscal Year, 
which should thus include not only advanced payments fulfilling the relevant fiscal year’s tax obligation but 
also payments fulfilling the previous year(s)’ tax obligation (e.g. payment of the unpaid balance of corporate 
income tax accrued  in relation to the previous year(s), including payments related to reassessments of 
previous years), regardless of whether those taxes have been paid under protest. The amount of Income 
Tax Accrued-Current Year and Income Tax Paid (on Cash Basis) should be reported independently.  

4.2 Where taxes have been paid and subsequently refunded, how should the tax refund 
be reported for the purposes of Table 1? 

In general, a refund of income tax should be reported in Income Tax Paid (on Cash Basis) in the reporting 
fiscal  year  in  which  the  refund  is  received.  A