ny  B,  an  associated 
enterprise  in  another  country.  Assume  that  A  is  found  to  manufacture  P1 
products  using  valuable,  unique  intangibles  that  belong  to  B  and  following 
technical specifications set by B. Assume that in this P1 transaction, A only 
performs simple functions and does not make any valuable, unique contribution 
in relation to the transaction. The tested party for this P1 transaction would 
most often be A. Assume now that A is also manufacturing P2 products for 
which it owns and uses valuable unique intangibles such as valuable patents 
and trademarks, and for which B acts as a distributor. Assume that in this P2 
transaction, B only performs simple functions and does not make any valuable, 
unique contribution in relation to the transaction. The tested party for the P2 
transaction would most often be B.

A.3.4. Information on the controlled transaction

3.20. 
In  order  to  select  and  apply  the  most  appropriate  transfer  pricing 
method  to  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  information  is  needed  on  the 
comparability factors in relation to the controlled transaction under review and 
in particular on the functions, assets and risks of all the parties to the controlled 
transaction, including the foreign associated enterprise(s). Specifically, while 
one-sided  methods  (e.g.  cost  plus,  resale  price  or  transactional  net  margin 
method which are discussed in detail in Chapter II) only require examining 
a  financial  indicator  or  profit  level  indicator  for  one  of  the  parties  to  the 
transaction  (the  “tested  party”  as  discussed  in  paragraphs  3.18-3.19),  some 
information on the comparability factors of the controlled transaction and in 
particular on the functional analysis of the non-tested party is also needed in 
order  to  appropriately  characterise  the  controlled  transaction  and  select  the 
most appropriate transfer pricing method.

in 

the  most  appropriate 

transfer  pricing  method 

3.21.  Where 
the 
circumstances of the case, determined following the guidance in paragraphs 2.1-
2.12, is a transactional profit split, financial information on all the parties to 
the transaction, domestic and foreign, is needed. Given the two-sided nature 
of  this  method,  the  application  of  a  transactional  profit  split  necessitates 
particularly detailed information on the foreign associated enterprise party to 
the transaction. This includes information on the five comparability factors 
in  order  to  appropriately  characterise  the  relationship  between  the  parties 
and demonstrate the appropriateness of the transactional profit split method, 
as  well  as  financial  information  (the  determination  of  the  relevant  profits 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

156 – CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS

to be split and the splitting of the profits both rely on financial information 
pertaining  to  all  the  parties  to  the  transaction,  including  the  foreign 
associated  enterprise).  Accordingly,  where  the  most  appropriate  transfer 
pricing  method  in  the  circumstances  of  the  case  is  a  transactional  profit 
split, it would be reasonable to expect that taxpayers be ready to provide tax 
administrations  with  the  necessary  information  on  the  foreign  associated 
enterprise party to the transaction, including the financial data necessary to 
calculate the profit split. See Chapter V.

in 

the  most  appropriate 

transfer  pricing  method 

3.22.  Where 
the 
circumstances of the case, determined following the guidance in paragraphs 2.1-
2.12, is a one-sided method, financial information on the tested party is needed 
in  addition  to  the  information  referred  to  in  paragraph  3.20  –  irrespective 
of  whether  the  tested  party  is  a  domestic  or  foreign  entity.  So  if  the  most 
appropriate  method  is  a  cost  plus,  resale  price  or  transactional  net  margin 
method and the tested party is the foreign entity, sufficient information is needed 
to be able to reliably apply the selected method to the foreign tested party and 
to enable a review by the tax administration of the jurisdiction of the non-tested 
party of the application of the method to the foreign tested party. On the other 
hand,  once  a  particular  one-sided  method  is  chosen  as  the  most  appropriate 
method  and  the  tested  party  is  the  domestic  taxpayer,  the  tax  administration 
generally has no reason to further ask for financial data of the foreign associated 
enterprise outside of that requested as part of the country-by-country or master 
file reporting requirements (see Chapter V).

3.23.  As  explained  above,  transfer  pricing  analysis  necessitates  some 
information to be available about foreign associated enterprises, the nature 
and extent of which depends especially on the transfer pricing method used. 
However gathering such information may present a taxpa