ten  a  division  of  a 
large insurance broker). Typically this management would include ensuring 
compliance with local law, issuing policy documents, collecting premiums, 
paying  claims,  preparing  reports  and  providing  local  directors.  If  the 
captive  insurance  is  managed  from  within  the  MNE  group  it  is  necessary 
to determine which entity manages it (if such management is not exercised 
by  employees  of  the  captive  insurance)  and  to  appropriately  reward  that 
management.

10.199.  A frequent concern when considering the transfer pricing of captive 
insurance transactions is whether the transaction concerned is genuinely one 
of insurance, i.e. whether a risk exists and, if so, whether it is allocated to 
the captive insurance in light of the facts and circumstances. The following 
are indicators, all or substantially all of which would be found if the captive 
insurance was found to undertake a genuine insurance business:

• 

• 

there is diversification and pooling of risk in the captive insurance;

the economic capital position of the entities within the MNE group 
has improved as a result of diversification and there is therefore a real 
economic impact for the MNE group as a whole;

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

444 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

• 

• 

• 

both  the  captive  insurance  and  any  reinsurer  are  regulated  entities 
with broadly similar regulatory regimes and regulators that require 
evidence of risk assumption and appropriate capital levels;

the insured risk would otherwise be insurable outside the MNE group;

the  captive  insurance  has  the  requisite  skills,  including  investment 
skills, and experience at its disposal (see paragraph 10.213);

• 

the captive insurance has a real possibility of suffering losses.

10.200. In order to consider the transfer pricing implications of a transaction 
with a captive insurance, it is first necessary to identify the commercial or 
financial relations between the associated enterprises and the conditions and 
economically  relevant  circumstances  attaching  to  those  relations  in  order 
that the actual transaction is accurately delineated. The initial question will 
therefore be whether the transaction under consideration is one of insurance, 
as  defined  above.  This  analysis  requires  consideration  of  whether  the  risk 
has been assumed by the insurer and whether risk diversification has been 
achieved.

E.2.1. Assumption of risk and risk diversification

10.201.  Insurance requires the assumption of insurance risk by the insurer. 
In the event of a claim, the insured does not suffer the financial impact of a 
potential economic loss to the extent that insurance risk has been assumed by 
the insurer, because the loss is offset by the insurance payment.

10.202.  From  the  captive  insurance’s  perspective,  the  fact  that  the  captive 
insurance  is  exposed  to  the  downside  outcome  of  the  insured  risk  and  to  the 
possibility of significant loss could be an indicator that the insurance risk has 
been  assumed  by  the  captive  insurance.  In  addition,  the  assumption  of  the 
insurance risk can only take place if the captive insurance has a realistic prospect 
of  being  able  to  satisfy  claims  in  the  event  of  the  risk  materialising,  i.e.  the 
captive insurance needs to have access to funding to bear the consequences of 
the playing out of the insured risk. Determining whether the captive insurance 
has the financial capacity to assume the risk requires consideration of the capital 
readily available to the captive and its options realistically available. In particular, 
when the captive insurance invests the premiums into the insured entities within 
the MNE group, the relation between the captive insurance’s capacity to satisfy 
the claims and the financial positions of those other MNEs would be central to 
Chapter I analysis.

10.203.  Insurance  also  requires  risk  diversification.  Risk  diversification  is 
the pooling of a portfolio of risks by which the insurer achieves an efficient 
use of capital. Large commercial insurers rely on having sufficiently large 
numbers of policies with similar probabilities of loss to allow statistical laws 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 445

of averages to apply and permit accuracy of modelling of the likelihood of 
claims.  The  insurer  also  maintains  a  portfolio  of  risks  for  which  it  has  a 
capital reserve based on regulatory needs and rating agency requirements.

10.204. Risk diversification is at the core of insurance business. Combining 
non-correlated risk and varied geographical exposures lead to an efficient use 
of capital, allowing the insurer to have a lower level of capital than that the 
insured parties would have been required to maintain to face the consequences 
of risk materialisation.

10.205.  A captive insurance may a