ular meetings of tax inspectors organised by 
the  Committee  on  Fiscal  Affairs,  the  Working  Party  will  arrange  biennial 
meetings of tax examiners to discuss difficult case paradigms and to provide 
an input to any appropriate updates to the Guidelines. OECD will consider 
the  difficult  case  paradigms  only  from  the  perspective  of  monitoring  the 
application of the Guidelines.

Individual countries would take responsibility at meetings of Working 
13. 
Party  No.  6  for  leading  discussions  of  the  difficult  case  paradigms  and  of 
problematic areas that can be illustrated with practical examples.

14. 
The outcomes envisaged by the Working Party from the identification 
and  analysis  of  difficult  case  paradigms  could  include  the  development  of 
examples illustrating the application of the Guidelines in cases (identified for 
discussion) where the principles already contained within the Guidelines can 
be applied. It could also include identification of areas where the Guidelines 
could be amended to provide clearer guidance or where new material could be 
inserted into the Guidelines.

B.3. Updates of legislation and practice

The  Secretariat  will  solicit  from  member  countries  reports  on 
15. 
developments in their domestic transfer pricing legislation, regulations, and 
administrative practices, consistent with the invitation of the Council.

B.4. Development of examples

16. 
The foregoing monitoring procedures will parallel the development of 
additional hypothetical examples to be added to the Guidelines. The examples 
are not intended to develop new principles or to cover new issues but rather 
to assist in interpreting principles and in addressing difficult issues already 
discussed in the Guidelines. To ensure that they are of practical value and 
avoid being overly prescriptive the examples will be short, based on stated 
facts and relatively straightforward so that their scope is not so confined that 
the guidance they provide is of narrow and limited application. The examples 
will fall into two broad categories. The first will consist of illustrations of the 
application of the methods and approaches described in the Guidelines. The 
second set of examples will be designed to aid in the selection of a suitable 
transfer  pricing  method  or  methods.  Although  hypothetical,  the  examples 
will draw on the practical experiences of tax administrations and taxpayers in 
applying the arm’s length principle under the Guidelines, and will contribute 
to the establishing of good practices.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

C. Involvement of the business community

ANNEX: MONITORING PROCEDURES – 459

It is not intended that the OECD should intervene in the resolution 
17. 
of  transfer  pricing  disputes  between  a  taxpayer  and  a  tax  administration. 
The  monitoring  process  is  not  intended  to  be  a  form  of  arbitration  and  so 
taxpayers will not be able to present individual cases for resolution by the 
Working Party. Nevertheless, as foreseen in the Guidelines and the Council 
Recommendation,  the  business  community  will  be  encouraged  to  identify 
problematic  issues  (preferably  illustrated  with  practical  but  hypothetical 
examples)  which  raise  questions  about  the  internationally  consistent 
application of the Guidelines.

18. 
The  Business  Industry  Advisory  Committee  (“BIAC”)  will  be 
invited to present practical difficulties in monitoring the application of the 
Guidelines to the Working Party for its consideration of the adequacy of the 
guidance  provided  in  the  Guidelines  in  relation  to  such  areas,  respecting 
confidentiality of the information.

19. 
In contributing to the OECD role of monitoring the implementation 
of  the  Guidelines,  the  business  community  would  be  encouraged  to  take 
particular note of the guidance given in paragraph 17 of this annex. It should 
therefore  focus  on  issues  that  give  rise  to  either  theoretical  or  practical 
difficulties  and  not  on  specific  and  unresolved  transfer  pricing  cases. 
However,  it  may  be  useful  to  illustrate  a  particular  issue  by  reference  to  a 
hypothetical  example.  In  constructing  such  an  example,  which  could  draw 
upon  features  taken  from  a  number  of  real  cases,  care  should  be  taken  to 
ensure it remains hypothetical and does not resemble a current case, and that 
the features described should be restricted to the problematic issues concerned 
in  order  to  avoid  an  impression  of  setting  any  general  precedent  for  the 
resolution of an individual case.

C.1. Peer reviews
It is felt that one of the strengths of the peer review process is that 
20. 
the  review  is  conducted  solely  by  peers  i.e.  in  this  case  the  other  member 
countries. That way the process is conducted in a positive and constructive 
manner so that best practice can be passed on and worse pract