 As cash pooling is not 
undertaken regularly, if at all, by independent enterprises, the application of 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 427

transfer pricing principles requires careful consideration. As paragraph 1.11 
notes  “Where  independent  enterprises  seldom  undertake  transactions  of 
the  type  entered  into  by  associated  enterprises,  the  arm’s  length  principle 
can be difficult to apply because there is little or no direct evidence of what 
conditions would have been established by independent enterprises.”
10.116.  The accurate delineation of cash pooling arrangements would need 
to  take  into  account  not  only  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the  balances 
transferred but the wider context of the conditions of the pooling arrangement 
as a whole. For example, a cash pool is likely to differ from a straightforward 
overnight deposit with a bank or similar financial institution in that a cash 
pool member with a credit position is not depositing money as a transaction 
in isolation with a view to a simple depositor return.
10.117.  The  cash  pool  member  is  likely  to  be  participating  in  providing 
liquidity  as  part  of  a  broader  group  strategy,  an  arrangement  in  which  the 
member  can  have  a  credit  or  debit  position,  which  may  include  among  its 
aims  a  range  of  benefits  that  can  only  be  achieved  as  part  of  a  collective 
strategy involving the pool members, done for the benefit of all of the pool 
participants, and the membership of which is limited to entities within the 
MNE  group.  Pool  participants  deposit  cash  to  the  pool  (or  withdraw  cash 
from the pool), and not to (or from) a particular cash pool member.
10.118.  No member of the pooling arrangement would expect to participate 
in the transaction if it made them any worse off than their next best option. 
The analysis of an MNE’s decision to participate in a cash pool arrangement 
should be done with reference to its options realistically available, taking into 
account that an MNE can obtain benefits as a member of the cash pool other 
than an improved interest rate (see paragraph 10.146).

10.119.  In delineating the cash pool transactions, it may be that the savings 
and  efficiencies  achieved  are  determined  to  arise  as  a  result  of  group 
synergies  created  through  deliberate  concerted  action  (as  discussed  in 
Section D.8 of Chapter I).
10.120.  As indicated in paragraph 1.179, the determination of the results that 
arise  from  deliberate  concerted  group  actions  must  be  established  through 
a  thorough  functional  analysis.  Accordingly,  in  the  context  of  cash  pooling 
arrangements, it is necessary to determine (i) the nature of the advantage or 
disadvantage, (ii) the amount of the benefit or detriment provided, and (iii) how 
that benefit or detriment should be divided among members of the MNE group.

10.121.  An advantage of a cash pooling arrangement may be the reduction 
of  interest  paid  or  the  increase  of  interest  received,  which  results  from 
netting credit and debit balances. The amount of that group synergy benefit, 
calculated by reference to the results that the cash pool members would have 
obtained had they dealt solely with independent enterprises, would generally 
be shared by the cash pool members, provided that an appropriate reward is 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

428 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

allocated to the cash pool leader for the functions it provides in accordance 
with Section C.2.3. of this chapter.

10.122.  Another key consideration in analysing intra-group funding arrangements 
which  might  be  described  as  cash  pooling  are  situations  where  members 
of  an  MNE  group  maintain  debit  and  credit  positions  which,  rather  than 
functioning  as  part  of  a  short-term  liquidity  arrangement,  become  more 
long term. It would usually be appropriate to consider whether, on accurate 
delineation, it would be correct to treat them as something other than a short-
term cash pool balance, such as a longer term deposit or a term loan.

10.123.  One of the practical difficulties in such situations will be deciding 
how long a balance should be treated as part of the cash pool before it could 
potentially be treated as something else, for example a term loan. As cash 
pooling is intended to be a short-term, liquidity-driven arrangement, it may 
be appropriate to consider whether the same pattern is present year after year 
and to examine what policies the MNE group’s financial management has in 
place, given that yield on cash balances is a key financial management issue.

10.124.  A  potential  difficulty  for  tax  administrations  in  analysing  cash 
pooling  arrangements  is  that  the  various  entities  in  a  cash  pool  may  be 
resident across a number of jurisdictions, potentially making it difficu