yer with difficulties 
that it does not encounter in producing its own information. These difficulties 
should  be  taken  into  account  in  developing  rules  and/or  procedures  on 
documentation.

A.4. Comparable uncontrolled transactions

A.4.1. In general

3.24.  A comparable uncontrolled transaction is a transaction between two 
independent  parties  that  is  comparable  to  the  controlled  transaction  under 
examination. It can be either a comparable transaction between one party to 
the controlled transaction and an independent party (“internal comparable”) 
or between two independent enterprises, neither of which is a party to the 
controlled transaction (“external comparable”).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS – 157

3.25.  Comparisons  of  a  taxpayer’s  controlled  transactions  with  other 
controlled  transactions  carried  out  by  the  same  or  another  MNE  group  are 
irrelevant to the application of the arm’s length principle and therefore should 
not be used by a tax administration as the basis for a transfer pricing adjustment 
or by a taxpayer to support its transfer pricing policy.

3.26.  The presence of minority shareholders may be one factor leading to 
the  outcomes  of  a  taxpayer’s  controlled  transactions  being  closer  to  arm’s 
length, but it is not determinative in and of itself. The influence of minority 
shareholders depends on a number of factors, including whether the minority 
shareholder  has  a  participation  in  the  capital  of  the  parent  company  or  in 
the capital of a subsidiary, and whether it has and actually exercises some 
influence on the pricing of intra-group transactions.

A.4.2. Internal comparables

3.27. 
Step 4 of the typical process described in paragraph 3.4 is a review of 
existing internal comparables, if any. Internal comparables may have a more 
direct and closer relationship to the transaction under review than external 
comparables.  The  financial  analysis  may  be  easier  and  more  reliable  as  it 
will presumably rely on identical accounting standards and practices for the 
internal  comparable  and  for  the  controlled  transaction.  In  addition,  access 
to information on internal comparables may be both more complete and less 
costly.

3.28.  On the other hand, internal comparables are not always more reliable 
and  it  is  not  the  case  that  any  transaction  between  a  taxpayer  and  an 
independent  party  can  be  regarded  as  a  reliable  comparable  for  controlled 
transactions  carried  on  by  the  same  taxpayer.  Internal  comparables  where 
they  exist  must  satisfy  the  five  comparability  factors  in  the  same  way  as 
external comparables, see paragraphs 1.33-1.138. Guidance on comparability 
adjustments  also  applies  to  internal  comparables,  see  paragraphs  3.47-3.54. 
Assume for instance that a taxpayer manufactures a particular product, sells 
a significant volume thereof to its foreign associated retailer and a marginal 
volume  of  the  same  product  to  an  independent  party.  In  such  a  case,  the 
difference in volumes is likely to materially affect the comparability of the two 
transactions. If it is not possible to make a reasonably accurate adjustment to 
eliminate the effects of such difference, the transaction between the taxpayer 
and its independent customer is unlikely to be a reliable comparable.

A.4.3. External comparables and sources of information

3.29.  There are various sources of information that can be used to identify 
potential external comparables. This sub-section discusses particular issues 
that  arise  with  respect  to  commercial  databases,  foreign  comparables  and 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

158 – CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS

information undisclosed to taxpayers. Additionally, whenever reliable internal 
comparables  exist,  it  may  be  unnecessary  to  search  for  external  ones,  see 
paragraphs 3.27-3.28.

A.4.3.1. Databases

3.30.  A  common  source  of  information  is  commercial  databases,  which 
have  been  developed  by  editors  who  compile  accounts  filed  by  companies 
with  the  relevant  administrative  bodies  and  present  them  in  an  electronic 
format suitable for searches and statistical analysis. They can be a practical 
and sometimes cost-effective way of identifying external comparables and 
may provide the most reliable source of information, depending on the facts 
and circumstances of the case.

3.31.  A  number  of  limitations  to  commercial  databases  are  frequently 
identified.  Because  these  commercial  databases  rely  on  publicly  available 
information, they are not available in all jurisdictions, since not all jurisdictions 
have  the  same  amount  of  publicly  available  information  about  their 
companies. Moreover, where they are available, they do not include the same 
type of information for all the companies 