t only to the risk profile of the borrowing MNE. 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 417

On prevailing facts and circumstances, and provided there is comparability 
between the third party debt issuance and the controlled transaction, when 
both an issuer and issue ratings are available, the issue rating of the particular 
debt  issuance  would  be  more  appropriate  to  use  to  price  the  controlled 
financial transaction.

C.1.1.2.3. Credit rating determinations

10.71.  Particular considerations should be borne in mind when determining 
a credit rating for a specific MNE within an MNE group for the purpose of 
assessing  controlled  transactions.  Where  an  MNE  has  a  publicly  available 
credit  rating  published  by  an  independent  credit  rating  agency,  that  rating 
may  be  informative  for  an  arm’s  length  analysis  of  the  MNE’s  controlled 
financing  transactions.  However,  in  most  cases,  publicly  available  credit 
ratings are only available for the MNE group. An approach often used for 
a  specific  MNE  is  to  apply  quantitative  and  qualitative  analyses  of  the 
individual characteristics of the MNE using publicly available financial tools 
or independent credit rating agencies’ methodologies to seek to replicate the 
process used to determine the credit rating of the MNE group. This approach 
also involves taking into account improvements in creditworthiness that the 
specific MNE would be assumed to receive as a result of being part of the 
MNE group.

C.1.1.2.4. The use of publicly available financial tools or methodologies 
to approximate credit ratings

10.72.  Publicly  available  financial  tools  are  designed  to  calculate  credit 
ratings.  Broadly,  these  tools  depend  on  approaches  such  as  calculating  the 
probability of default and of the likely loss should default occur to arrive at 
an implied rating for the borrowing. This can then be compared to a market 
database in a search for comparables to arrive at a price or price range for the 
borrowing. In considering whether the application of these tools results in a 
reliable assessment of the credit rating of controlled transactions, potential 
issues that need to be borne in mind include that the results are not based on 
a direct comparison with transactions between independent parties but are 
subject to the accuracy of the input parameters, a tendency to rely more on 
quantitative inputs at the expense of qualitative factors, and a lack of clarity 
in the processes (i.e. the workings of the underlying algorithms and processes 
may not be transparent).

10.73.  The  credit  rating  methodology  used  in  publicly  available  financial 
tools  may  differ  significantly  in  certain  respects  from  the  credit  rating 
methodologies  applied  by  independent  credit  rating  agencies  to  determine 
official  credit  ratings  and  the  impact  of  any  such  differences  should  be 
carefully considered. For instance, publicly available tools generally use only 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

418 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

a  limited  sample  of  quantitative  data  to  determine  a  credit  rating.  Official 
credit  ratings  published  by  independent  credit  rating  agencies  are  derived 
as a result of far more rigorous analysis that includes quantitative analysis 
of  historic  and  forecast  entity  performance  as  well  as  detailed  qualitative 
analysis of, for instance, management’s ability to manage the entity, industry 
specific features and the entity’s market share in its industry.
10.74.  For these reasons, the reliability of credit rating results derived from 
the use of publicly available financial tools may be improved to the extent the 
analysis can reproducibly demonstrate consistency of ratings using such tools 
with those provided by independent credit rating agencies.
In  conducting  a  credit  rating  analysis,  it  is  important  to  note  that 
10.75. 
the  financial  metrics  may  be  influenced  by  current  and  past  controlled 
transactions  (such  as  sales,  or  interest  expenses).  If  it  appears  that  such 
controlled transactions are not in accordance with the arm’s length principle, 
the credit rating derived in light of such intra-group transactions may not be 
reliable. (See also guidance in Section B). These considerations apply both to 
controlled transactions that may affect the current earnings of the MNE and 
to previous funding and other intra-group transactions that may have had an 
impact on the measures of income and capital of the MNE that are the subject 
of quantitative analysis.

C.1.1.3. Effect of group membership

10.76.  The  effect  of  group  membership  is  relevant  for  informing  the 
conditions under which an MNE would have borrowed from an independent 
lender at arm’s length in two ways in particular. Firstly, the external funding 
policies  and  pra