r  prices  (and  the  surrounding  conditions)  some  time  after 
they  were  set  and  there  can  be  genuine  difficulties  in  obtaining  sufficient 
information to evaluate properly whether arm’s length prices were used at the 
time they were set. These difficulties led in part to the development of the APA 
process as an alternative way of solving transfer pricing issues in some cases in 
order to avoid some of the problems described above. The objectives of an APA 
process are to facilitate principled, practical and co-operative negotiations, 
to resolve transfer pricing issues expeditiously and prospectively, to use the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

518 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS

resources of the taxpayer and the tax administration more efficiently, and to 
provide a measure of predictability for the taxpayer.

10. 
To  be  successful,  the  process  should  be  administered  in  a 
non-adversarial, efficient and practical fashion and requires the co-operation 
of all the participating parties. It is intended to supplement, rather than replace, 
the  traditional  administrative,  judicial,  and  treaty  mechanisms  for  resolving 
transfer pricing issues. Consideration of an APA may be most appropriate when 
the methodology for applying the arm’s length principle gives rise to significant 
questions of reliability and accuracy, or when the specific circumstances of the 
transfer pricing issues being considered are unusually complex.

11. 
One of the key objectives of the MAP APA process is the elimination 
of  potential  double  taxation.  Unilateral  APAs  give  rise  to  considerable 
concerns  in  this  area,  which  is  why  “most  jurisdictions  prefer  bilateral  or 
multilateral APAs” (paragraph 4.141 of the Guidelines). However, some kind of 
confirmation or agreement between the taxpayer and the tax administration is 
necessary in order to give effect to the MAP APA in each of the participating 
jurisdictions.  The  exact  form  of  such  confirmation  or  agreement  depends 
on  the  domestic  procedures  in  each  jurisdiction  (discussed  in  more  detail 
in  paragraphs  65-66  of  this  annex).  Such  a  confirmation  or  agreement  also 
provides a mechanism to ensure that the taxpayer complies with the terms and 
conditions of the MAP APA on which this confirmation or agreement is based.

12. 
Further, in order to meet the objectives described in this section, the 
MAP APA process needs to be conducted in a neutral manner. In particular, 
the  process  should  be  neutral  as  regards  the  residence  of  the  taxpayer,  the 
jurisdiction in which the request for the MAP APA was initiated, the audit or 
examination status of the taxpayer and the selection of taxpayers in general 
for audit or examination. The guidance in paragraph 4.167 of the Guidelines 
on possible misuse by tax administrations in their examination practices of 
information obtained in the APA process should also be borne in mind. The 
guidance given in this annex is intended to assist in attaining the objectives 
described in this section.

B. Eligibility for a MAP APA

B.1. Treaty issues

13. 
The  first  question  that  arises  is  whether  it  is  possible  for  there  to 
be  an  APA.  The  eligibility  of  a  taxpayer  to  apply  for  a  unilateral  APA  will 
be  determined  by  the  specific  domestic  requirements  of  the  relevant  tax 
administration. MAP APAs are governed by the mutual agreement procedure 
of  the  applicable  double  tax  agreement,  Article  25  of  the  OECD  Model 
Tax  Convention,  and  are  administered  at  the  discretion  of  the  relevant  tax 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS – 519

administrations. The work pursuant to Action  14  of the BEPS  Action Plan to 
ensure  the  timely,  effective  and  efficient  resolution  of  treaty-related  disputes 
recommended,  as  non-binding  best  practice  4,  that  jurisdictions  should 
implement bilateral APA programmes as soon as they have the capacity to do so, 
recognising that APAs provide a greater level of certainty in both treaty partner 
jurisdictions, lessen the likelihood of double taxation and may proactively prevent 
transfer pricing disputes. In this regard, it should be noted that the country mutual 
agreement procedure profiles prepared pursuant to element 2.2 of the Action 14 
minimum standard include information on the bilateral APA programmes.
14. 
In  some  cases  the  taxpayer  will  only  request  a  unilateral  APA.  The 
reasons  for  the  taxpayer  not  requesting  a  MAP  APA  should  be  explored. 
Following the guidance given by the Guidelines in paragraph 4.173 that “wherever 
possible, an APA should be concluded on a bilateral or multilateral basis”, the 
tax  authorities  should  encourage  the  taxpayer  to  request  a  MAP  APA  if  the 
circumstances so warrant. Some jurisdictions if t