n  should  be  able  to  document  that  it  is  compliant  with  the  ISO/IEC 
27000-series standards or that it has an equivalent information security framework and 
that taxpayer information obtained under an exchange agreement is protected under that 
framework.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

54 – ANNEx Iv TO ChAPTER v. COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

2.1.1 Background Checks and Contracts

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Screenings and background investigations for employees and contractors
•  Hiring process and contracts
•  Responsible Points of Contact

What procedures govern your tax administration’s background investigations for employees and contractors 
who may have access to, use, or are responsible for protecting data received through exchange of information? 
Is this information publicly available? If so, please provide the reference. If not, please provide a summary of the 
procedures.

2.1.2 Training and Awareness

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Initial training and periodic security awareness training based on roles, security risks, and 

applicable laws

What training does your tax administration provide to employees and contractors regarding confidential 
information including data received from partners through the Exchange of Information? Does your tax 
administration maintain a public version of the requirements? If so, please provide the reference. If not, please 
provide a summary of the requirement. [/End

2.1.3 Departure Policies

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Departure policies to terminate access to confidential information

What procedures does your tax administration maintain for terminating access to confidential information for 
departing employees and consultants? Are the procedures publicly available? If so, please provide the reference. 
If not, please provide a summary of the procedures.

2.2.1 Physical Security: Access to Premises

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Security measures to restrict entry to premises: security guards, policies, entry access 

procedures

What procedures does your tax administration maintain to grant employees, consultants, and visitors access to 
premises where confidential information, paper or electronic, is stored? Are the procedures publicly available? If 
so, please provide the reference. If not, please provide a summary of the procedures.

2.2.2 Physical Security: Physical Document Storage

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Secure physical storage for confidential documents: policies and procedures

What procedures does your tax administration maintain for receiving, processing, archiving, retrieving and 
disposing of hard copies of confidential data received from taxpayers or exchange of information partners? Does 
your tax administration maintain procedures employees must follow when leaving their workspace at the end of 
the day? Are these procedures publicly available? If yes, please provide the reference. If not, please provide a 
summary.

Does your tax administration have a data classification policy? If so, please describe how your document storage 
procedures differ for data at all classification levels. Are these procedures publicly available? If yes, please 
provide the reference. If not, please provide a summary. [/End

2.3 Planning

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Planning documentation to develop, update, and implement security information systems

What procedures does your tax administration maintain to develop, document, update, and implement security 
for information systems used to receive, process, archive and retrieve confidential information? Are these 
procedures publicly available? If yes, please provide the reference. If not, please provide a summary.

What procedures does your tax administration maintain regarding periodic Information Security Plan updates to 
address changes to the information systems environment, and how are problems and risks identified during the 
implementation of Information Security Plans resolved? Are these procedures publicly available? If yes, please 
provide the reference. If not, please provide a summary.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

ANNEx Iv TO ChAPTER v. COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 55

2.4 Configuration Management

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Configuration management and security controls

What policies does your tax administration maintain to regulate system configuration and updates? Are the 
policies publicly available? If yes, please provide the reference. If not, please provide a summary. [/End question]

2.5 Access Control

Primary Check-list Areas

•  Access Control Policies and procedures: authorized personnel and international exchange 

of information

What policies does your tax administration maintain to limit system access to authorized users and safeguard 
data during transmission when received and stored? Please describe how your tax administr