med  by  Company  B  are  a  key 
source of economic advantage over competitors. Company B has performed 
the R&D activities and assumed the risks associated with the development of 
a sophisticated proprietary algorithm to get feedback from customers on the 
performance of the products. This information is highly valuable in accurately 
forecasting demand and managing inventory and distribution logistics so that 
customers are assured of receiving their orders within 48 hours.

The  accurate  delineation  of  the  transaction  indicates  that  the 
14. 
contributions of Company A and Company B are unique and valuable to the 
potential success of the new line of products.

15. 
Under  these  circumstances,  the  transactional  profit  split  method  is 
likely to be the most appropriate method for determining the compensation 
for  the  products  sold  by  Company  A  to  Company  B  as  both  parties  make 
unique and valuable contributions to the transaction.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

470 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD

Example 4

The facts in this example are the same as in Example 3, except that 
16. 
the  marketing  activities  performed  by  Company  B  are  more  limited  and 
do not significantly enhance the goodwill or reputation associated with the 
trademark.  Company  B  has  a  mechanism  whereby  customer  feedback  on 
the products it sells is relayed to Company A, but this is a relatively simple 
process, and does not constitute a unique and valuable contribution. In sum, 
its distribution activities are not a particular source of competitive advantage 
in its industry. In particular, the potential success of the new line of products 
is largely dependent on its technical specifications, its design, and the price 
at which the products are sold to final customers.

17. 
The functional analysis concludes that Company A assumes the risks 
associated with the design, development and manufacturing of the product 
and Company B assumes the risks relating to marketing and distribution.

18. 
Marketing and distribution risks assumed by Company B may impact 
on the ultimate profitability of Company A. However, the functional analysis 
determines  that  the  risks  assumed  by  Company  B  are  not  economically 
significant  for  the  business  operations  and  that  Company  B  does  not  make 
any unique and valuable contributions in relation to the controlled transaction.

19. 
Under  these  circumstances,  the  transactional  profit  split  method 
may not be the most appropriate method as it is likely that the arm’s length 
compensation for the contribution of Company B can be reliably benchmarked 
by reference to comparable uncontrolled transactions and the application of a 
one-sided transfer pricing method or methods.

Example 5

20.  WebCo  is  a  member  of  an  MNE  group  that  develops  IT  solutions 
for business customers. Recently, WebCo designed the architecture of a web 
crawler  to  collect  pricing  data  from  internet  sites.  WebCo  has  written  the 
code of the programme so it is able to systematically scan web pages in a 
more efficient and faster way than any other similar search engines available 
in the market.

At this stage, WebCo licenses the programme to ScaleCo, a company 
21. 
in  the  same  MNE  group.  ScaleCo  is  responsible  for  scaling-up  the  web 
crawler  and  for  deciding  the  crawling  strategy.  ScaleCo  is  a  specialist  in 
designing  add-ons  for  the  web  crawler  and  in  customising  the  product  to 
address gaps in the market. Without these contributions, the system would 
not be able to meet potential customers’ needs.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER II: EXAMPLES ON THE PROFIT SPLIT METHOD – 471

22. 
Under the terms of the licence, WebCo will continue developing the 
underlying base technology and ScaleCo will use these developments to scale 
up the web crawler.
23. 
The functional analysis concludes that the economically significant risk 
in relation to the transaction is the development risk, i.e. the risk that the web 
crawler being developed is unsuccessful. In accordance with the risk analysis 
framework  described  in  Section  D.1.2.1  of  Chapter  I  of  these  Guidelines,  it 
is  determined  that  WebCo  and  ScaleCo  assume  the  development  risk  of  the 
software.
24. 
The  accurate  delineation  of  the  transaction  indicates  that  WebCo’s 
and  ScaleCo’s  contributions  are  unique  and  valuable  to  the  creation  and 
potential success of the web crawler.
25. 
Under  these  circumstances,  the  transactional  profit  split  method  is 
likely  to  be  the  most  appropriate  method  for  determining  the  arm’s  length 
compensation for the licence between WebCo and ScaleCo.

Example 6

ASSET Co is the parent company of an  MNE  group that provides 
26. 
asset  management  services  to  unrelated  parties.  It  has  two  subsidiar