ill be an important factor in considering whether 
transactions should be combined or segregated. In particular, it is important 
to  consider  whether  available  comparables  permit  accurate  evaluation  of 
interactions between transactions.
6.100.  One  situation  where  transactions  involving  transfers  of  intangibles 
or rights in intangibles may be combined with other transactions involves a 
business franchise arrangement. Under such an arrangement, one member of 
an MNE group may agree to provide a combination of services and intangibles 
to an associated enterprise in exchange for a single fee. If the services and 
intangibles made available under such an arrangement are sufficiently unique 
that reliable comparables cannot be identified for the entire service/intangible 
package, it may be necessary to segregate the various parts of the package of 
services and intangibles for separate transfer pricing consideration. It should 
be kept in mind, however, that the interactions between various intangibles 
and services may enhance the value of both.
In other situations, the provision of a service and the transfer of one or 
6.101. 
more intangibles may be so closely intertwined that it is difficult to separate 
the transactions for purposes of a transfer pricing analysis. For example, some 
transfers of rights in software may be combined with an undertaking by the 
transferor  to  provide  ongoing  software  maintenance  services,  which  may 
include  periodic  updates  to  the  software.  In  situations  where  services  and 
transfers of intangibles are intertwined, determining arm’s length prices on 
an aggregate basis may be necessary.
6.102.  It  should  be  emphasised  that  delineating  the  transaction  as  the 
provision of products or services or the transfer of intangibles or a combination 
of  both  does  not  necessarily  dictate  the  use  of  a  particular  transfer  pricing 
method.  For  example,  a  cost  plus  approach  will  not  be  appropriate  for  all 
service  transactions,  and  not  all  intangibles  transactions  require  complex 
valuations or the application of profit split methods. The facts of each specific 
situation,  and  the  results  of  the  required  functional  analysis,  will  guide  the 
manner  in  which  transactions  are  combined,  delineated  and  analysed  for 
transfer  pricing  purposes,  as  well  as  the  selection  of  the  most  appropriate 
transfer  pricing  method  in  a  particular  case.  The  ultimate  objective  is  to 
identify  the  prices  and  other  relevant  conditions  that  would  be  established 
between independent enterprises in comparable transactions.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 279

6.103.  Moreover,  it  should  also  be  emphasised  that  determinations  as  to 
whether transactions should be aggregated or segregated for analysis usually 
involve the delineation of the actual transaction undertaken, by reference to 
written  agreements  and  the  actual  conduct  of  the  parties.  Determinations 
regarding the actual transaction undertaken constitute one necessary element 
in determining the most appropriate transfer pricing method in the particular 
case.

C.2.  Transactions involving the use of intangibles in connection 

with sales of goods or performance of services

6.104.  Intangibles  may  be  used  in  connection  with  controlled  transactions 
in  situations  where  there  is  no  transfer  of  the  intangible  or  of  rights  in  the 
intangible. For example, intangibles may be used by one or both parties to a 
controlled transaction in connection with the manufacture of goods sold to an 
associated enterprise, in connection with the marketing of goods purchased 
from  an  associated  enterprise,  or  in  connection  with  the  performance  of 
services on behalf of an associated enterprise. The nature of such a transaction 
should be clearly specified, and any relevant intangibles used by either of the 
parties in connection with such a controlled transaction should be identified 
and  taken  into  account  in  the  comparability  analysis,  in  the  selection  and 
application  of  the  most  appropriate  transfer  pricing  method  for  that  trans-
action, and in the choice of the tested party. Supplemental guidance regarding 
the determination of arm’s length conditions for transactions involving the use 
of intangibles in connection with the sale of goods or the provision of services 
is contained in Sections D.1 and D.4 of this chapter.

6.105.  The need to consider the use of intangibles by a party to a controlled 
transaction involving a sale of goods can be illustrated as follows. Assume 
that  a  car  manufacturer  uses  valuable  proprietary  patents  to  manufacture 
the cars that it then sells to associated distributors. Assume that the patents 
significantly contribute to the value of the cars. The patents and the value they 
contribute should be i