into  account  in  determining  an  interest  rate  to 
charge. Credit ratings can serve as a useful measure of creditworthiness and 
therefore help to identify potential comparables or to apply economic models 
in the context of related party transactions. Furthermore, in the case of intra-
group loans and other financial instruments that are the subject of controlled 
transactions,  the  effect  of  group  membership  may  be  an  economically 
relevant  factor  that  affects  the  pricing  of  these  instruments.  Accordingly, 
this subsection elaborates on the use of credit ratings and the effect of group 
membership in the context of pricing intra-group loans. Where appropriate, 
reference to this subsection will be made in other parts of this guidance.

10.63.  Credit  ratings  can  be  determined  for  the  overall  creditworthiness  of 
an MNE or MNE group4 or for a specific issuance of debt. As detailed in the 
following  paragraphs,  determining  credit  ratings  requires  consideration  of 
quantitative – e.g. financial information – and qualitative factors – e.g. industry 
and jurisdiction in which the MNE or MNE group operates.

C.1.1.2.1. The credit rating of an MNE or MNE group

10.64.  The credit rating of an MNE or MNE group (usually referred to as 
the “issuer credit rating”) is an opinion about its general creditworthiness. 
Such an opinion is usually premised on the MNE or MNE group’s capacity 
and  willingness  to  meet  its  financial  obligations  in  accordance  with  the 
terms of those obligations. The credit rating of an MNE or MNE group is 
effectively a form of relative ranking of the creditworthiness in comparison 

4. 

For the purpose of this guidance, the credit rating of an MNE group is intended 
to  refer  to  the  credit  rating  of  the  ultimate  parent  entity  of  the  MNE  group 
calculated on consolidated financial statements.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

416 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

to other borrowers. In general, a lower credit rating will indicate a greater 
risk of default and be expected to result in a higher rate of return for lenders.

10.65.  Information  is  readily  available  in  many  lending  markets  on  the 
different rates of interest charged for differently rated enterprises and such 
information may usefully contribute to performing comparability analyses. 
Financing  transactions  that  the  borrowing  MNE  or  another  MNE  within 
the  group  has  with  external  lenders  may  also  be  reliable  comparables  for 
interest  rates  charged  by  associated  enterprises  (see  paragraphs  10.94 
and  10.95).  Financing  transactions  undertaken  by  the  borrowing  MNE  or 
another entity in the MNE group, for example the MNE group parent, will 
be reliable comparables only where the differences between the controlled 
and  uncontrolled  transactions  do  not  materially  affect  the  interest  rate  or 
reasonably accurate adjustments can be made.

10.66.  As  a  credit  rating  depends  on  a  combination  of  quantitative  and 
qualitative factors, there is still likely to be some variance in creditworthiness 
between  borrowers  with  the  same  credit  rating.  In  addition,  when  making 
comparisons between borrowers using the kind of financial metrics typically 
seen as important to lenders, such as debt-earnings or debt-equity ratios, it is 
important to note that the same financial metrics will not necessarily result 
in  the  same  credit  rating  if  there  are  other  differences  between  the  rated 
parties.  For  example,  it  may  require  stronger  financial  metrics  to  obtain  a 
given rating in some industries than to obtain the same rating for a borrower 
in  other  industries.  More  intrinsically  risky  industries  and  those  with  less 
stable revenue streams tend to require better financial ratios in order to obtain 
the same rating.

10.67.  There may be special circumstances, such as in the case of start-up 
entities, or those that have recently been part of a merger, that may have an 
impact on the credit rating of a group entity. These special situations should 
be taken into consideration.

10.68.  It  is  important  that  the  MNE  group  appropriately  documents  the 
reasons and selection of the credit rating used for a particular MNE when 
pricing intra-group loans and other controlled financial transactions.

C.1.1.2.2. The credit rating of a specific debt issuance

10.69.  The credit rating of a particular debt issuance (“issue rating”) is an 
opinion  about  the  creditworthiness  of  the  issuer  with  respect  to  a  specific 
financial  instrument.  The  issue  rating  considers  specific  features  of  the 
financial instrument, for instance, guarantees, securities and level of seniority.

10.70.  The credit rating of an MNE or MNE group may differ from an issue 
rating due to the fact that the credit risk of a financial instrument is linked to 
its specific features and no