
compensation  for  functions  performed,  assets  used,  and  risks  assumed  to 
consider comparability factors that may contribute to the creation of value or 
the generation of returns derived by the MNE group from the exploitation of 
intangibles in determining prices for relevant transactions.

6.49.  The relative importance of contributions to the creation of intangible 
value  by  members  of  the  group  in  the  form  of  functions  performed,  assets 
used  and  risks  assumed  will  vary  depending  on  the  circumstances.  For 
example, assume that a fully developed and currently exploitable intangible is 
purchased from a third party by a member of a group and exploited through 
manufacturing and distribution functions performed by other group members 
while  being  actively  managed  and  controlled  by  the  entity  purchasing  the 
intangible. It is assumed that this intangible would require no development, may 
require little or no maintenance or protection, and may have limited usefulness 
outside the area of exploitation intended at the time of the acquisition. There 
would be no development risk associated with the intangible, although there 
are  risks  associated  with  acquiring  and  exploiting  the  intangible.  The  key 
functions performed by the purchaser are those necessary to select the most 
appropriate intangible on the market, to analyse its potential benefits if used 
by the MNE group, and the decision to take on the risk-bearing opportunity 
through purchasing the intangible. The key asset used is the funding required to 
purchase the intangible. If the purchaser has the capacity and actually performs 
all the key functions described, including control of the risks associated with 
acquiring and exploiting the intangible, it may be reasonable to conclude that, 
after  making  arm’s  length  payment  for  the  manufacturing  and  distribution 
functions of other associated enterprises, the owner would be entitled to retain 
or have attributed to it any income or loss derived from the post-acquisition 
exploitation of the intangible. While the application of Chapters I-III may be 
fairly straightforward in such a simple fact pattern, the analysis may be more 
difficult in situations in which:

i) 

Intangibles  are  self-developed  by  a  multinational  group,  especially 
when such intangibles are transferred between associated enterprises 
while still under development;

ii)  Acquired or self-developed intangibles serve as a platform for further 

development; or

iii)  Other aspects, such as marketing or manufacturing are particularly 

important to value creation.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

262 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

The generally applicable guidance below is particularly relevant for, and 

is primarily concerned with, these more difficult cases.

B.2.1. Performance and control of functions

6.50.  Under  the  principles  of  Chapters  I-III,  each  member  of  the  MNE 
group  should  receive  arm’s  length  compensation  for  the  functions  it 
performs.  In  cases  involving  intangibles,  this  includes  functions  related  to 
the development, enhancement, maintenance, protection, and exploitation of 
intangibles. The identity of the member or members of the group performing 
functions related to the development, enhancement, maintenance, protection, 
and exploitation of intangibles, therefore, is one of the key considerations in 
determining arm’s length conditions for controlled transactions.

6.51. 
The need to ensure that all members of the MNE group are appropriately 
compensated  for  the  functions  they  perform,  the  assets  they  contribute  and 
the  risks  they  assume  implies  that  if  the  legal  owner  of  intangibles  is  to  be 
entitled  ultimately  to  retain  all  of  the  returns  derived  from  exploitation  of 
the intangibles it must perform all of the functions, contribute all assets used 
and  assume  all  risks  related  to  the  development,  enhancement,  maintenance, 
protection  and  exploitation  of  the  intangible.  This  does  not  imply,  however, 
that the associated enterprises constituting an MNE group must structure their 
operations regarding the development, enhancement, maintenance, protection 
or exploitation of intangibles in any particular way. It is not essential that the 
legal owner physically performs all of the functions related to the development, 
enhancement, maintenance, protection and exploitation of an intangible through 
its own personnel in order to be entitled ultimately to retain or  be attributed 
a  portion  of  the  return  derived  by  the  MNE  group  from  exploitation  of  the 
intangibles. In transactions between independent enterprises, certain functions 
are sometimes outsourced to other entities. A member of an MNE group that 
is  the  legal  owner  of  intangibles  could  similarly  outsource  functions  related 
to  the  development,  enhancement,  maintenance,  