 group.  The  taxpayer 
will select one or more allocation keys to apply for this purpose based on the 
following principles. The appropriate allocation key or keys will depend on 
the nature of the services. The same allocation key or keys must be used on 
a consistent basis for all allocations of costs relating to the same category of 
services. In accordance with the guidance in paragraph 7.24, the allocation 
key  or  keys  selected  with  respect  to  costs  for  each  relevant  category  of 
services should reasonably reflect the level of benefit expected to be received 
by each recipient of the particular service. As a general rule, the allocation 
key  or  keys  should  reflect  the  underlying  need  for  the  particular  services. 
By way of examples, the allocation key for services related to people might 
employ  each  company’s  share  of  total  group  headcount,  IT  services  might 
employ the share of total users, fleet management services might employ the 
share of total vehicles, accounting support services might employ the share 
of total relevant transactions or the share of total assets. In many cases, the 
share of total turnover may be a relevant key.

7.60.  The examples of allocation keys provided in the previous paragraph 
are  not  intended  to  be  an  exhaustive  list.  Depending  on  the  facts  and 
circumstances more sophisticated allocation keys might be used. However, 
a balance should be struck between theoretical sophistication and practical 
administration,  bearing  in  mind  that  the  costs  involved  are  not  generating 
high value for the group. In this context, there may be no need to use multiple 
allocation  keys  if  the  taxpayer  can  explain  the  reasons  for  concluding  that 
a single key provides a reasonable reflection of the respective benefits. For 
reasons  of  consistency,  the  same  allocation  key  or  keys  should  be  applied 
in determining the allocation to all recipients within the group of the same 
type  of  low  value-adding  intra-group  services,  and  it  is  expected  that 
the  same  reasonable  key  will  be  used  from  year  to  year  unless  there  is  a 
justified  reason  to  change.  Tax  administrations  and  taxpayers  should  also 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

334 – CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES

bear  in  mind  that  changing  the  reasonable  allocation  key  can  give  rise  to 
considerable  complexities.  It  is  expected  that  the  taxpayer  will  describe  in 
its documentation (see paragraph 7.64 below) the reasons for concluding that 
the allocation key produces outcomes which reasonably reflects the benefits 
likely to be derived by each service recipient.

D.2.4. Profit mark-up

7.61. 
In determining the arm’s length charge for low value-adding intra-
group services, the MNE provider of services shall apply a profit mark-up 
to  all  costs  in  the  pool  with  the  exception  of  any  pass-through  costs  as 
determined  under  paragraphs  2.99  and  7.34.  The  same  mark-up  shall  be 
utilised  for  all  low  value-adding  services  irrespective  of  the  categories  of 
services. The mark-up shall be equal to 5% of the relevant cost as determined 
in Section D.2.2. The mark-up under the simplified approach does not need 
to be justified by a benchmarking study. The same mark-up may be applied 
to low value-adding intra-group services performed by one group member 
solely on behalf of one other group member, the costs of which are separately 
identified under the guidance in paragraph 7.57. It should be noted that the 
low value-adding intra-group services mark-up should not, without further 
justification  and  analysis,  be  used  as  benchmark  for  the  determination  of 
the  arm’s  length  price  for  services  not  within  the  definition  of  low  value-
adding intra-group services, nor for similar services not within the elective, 
simplified scheme.

D.2.5. Charge for low value-adding services

7.62.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 7.55, the charge for services 
to any member of the electing MNE group shall be the sum of (i) the costs 
incurred by another group member in providing services specifically to the 
member under the second step as detailed in paragraph 7.57, plus the selected 
profit  mark-up,  and  (ii)  the  share  of  pooled  costs  allocated  to  the  member 
under the third step as detailed in paragraph 7.59 using the selected allocation 
key,  plus  the  selected  profit  mark-up.  The  charge  is  payable  to  the  group 
member that incurred the costs in the pool, and where there is more than one 
group member incurring those costs, in proportion to each member’s share 
of the pooled costs.

D.2.6. Threshold for the application of the simplified approach

7.63.  Tax administrations adopting the simplified approach to low-value-
adding intra-group services set out in this section may include an appropriate 
threshold to enable them to review the sim