ed compliance burdens placed on taxpayers. In this respect it is noted that 
clear and widely adopted documentation rules can reduce compliance costs which 
could otherwise arise in a transfer pricing dispute.

B. Objectives of transfer pricing documentation requirements

1. 

3. 

2. 

5.5. 

Three objectives of transfer pricing documentation are:
to  ensure  that  taxpayers  give  appropriate  consideration  to  transfer 
pricing requirements in establishing prices and other conditions for 
transactions  between  associated  enterprises  and  in  reporting  the 
income derived from such transactions in their tax returns;
to  provide  tax  administrations  with  the  information  necessary  to 
conduct an informed transfer pricing risk assessment; and
to provide tax administrations with useful information to employ in 
conducting  an  appropriately  thorough  audit  of  the  transfer  pricing 
practices  of  entities  subject  to  tax  in  their  jurisdiction,  although  it 
may be necessary to supplement the documentation with additional 
information as the audit progresses.
5.6. 
Each of these objectives should be considered in designing appropriate 
domestic  transfer  pricing  documentation  requirements.  It  is  important  that 
taxpayers be required to carefully evaluate, at or before the time of filing a 
tax return, their own compliance with the applicable transfer pricing rules. It 
is also important that tax administrations be able to access the information 
they need to conduct a transfer pricing risk assessment to make an informed 
decision  about  whether  to  perform  an  audit.  In  addition,  it  is  important 
that tax administrations be able to access or demand, on a timely basis, all 
additional information necessary to conduct a comprehensive audit once the 
decision to conduct such an audit is made.

B.1.  Taxpayer’s assessment of its compliance with the arm’s length 

principle

By requiring taxpayers to articulate convincing, consistent and cogent 
5.7. 
transfer pricing positions, transfer pricing documentation can help to ensure 
that a culture of compliance is created. Well-prepared documentation will give 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION – 229

tax administrations some assurance that the taxpayer has analysed the positions 
it  reports  on  tax  returns,  has  considered  the  available  comparable  data,  and 
has reached consistent transfer pricing positions. Moreover, contemporaneous 
documentation requirements will help to ensure the integrity of the taxpayers’ 
positions  and  restrain  taxpayers  from  developing  justifications  for  their 
positions after the fact.

This compliance objective may be supported in two important ways. 
5.8. 
First,  tax  administrations  can  require  that  transfer  pricing  documentation 
requirements be satisfied on a contemporaneous basis. This would mean that the 
documentation would be prepared at the time of the transaction, or in any event, 
no later than the time of completing and filing the tax return for the fiscal year 
in which the transaction takes place. The second way to encourage compliance 
is to establish transfer pricing penalty regimes in a manner intended to reward 
timely and accurate preparation of transfer pricing documentation and to create 
incentives  for  timely,  careful  consideration  of  the  taxpayer’s  transfer  pricing 
positions. Filing requirements and penalty provisions related to documentation 
are discussed in greater detail in Section D below.

5.9.  While ideally taxpayers will use transfer pricing documentation as 
an opportunity to articulate a well thought-out basis for their transfer pricing 
policies, thereby meeting an important objective of such requirements, issues 
such as costs, time constraints, and competing demands for the attention of 
relevant personnel can sometimes undermine these objectives. It is therefore 
important for jurisdictions to keep documentation requirements reasonable 
and focused on material transactions in order to ensure mindful attention to 
the most important matters.

B.2. Transfer pricing risk assessment
5.10. 
Effective risk identification and assessment constitute an essential early 
stage in the process of selecting appropriate cases for transfer pricing audits or 
enquiries  and  in  focusing  such  audits  on  the  most  important  issues.  Because 
tax administrations operate with limited resources, it is important for them to 
accurately evaluate, at the very outset of a possible audit, whether a taxpayer’s 
transfer  pricing  arrangements  warrant  in-depth  review  and  a  commitment  of 
significant tax enforcement resources. Particularly with regard to transfer pricing 
issues (which generally are complex and fact-intensive), effective risk assessment 
becomes an essential prerequisite for a focused and resource-efficient audit. The 
OECD Forum on Tax Administration has developed a number of tools to assist 
ta