t of a 
dividend exemption in an exemption system) and a credit for withholding tax 
that had been allowed on the dividend.
4.76.  When  the  repatriation  involves  establishing  an  account  receivable, 
the  adjustments  to  actual  cash  flow  will  be  made  over  time,  although 
domestic law may limit the time within which the account can be satisfied. 
This  approach  is  identical  to  using  a  constructive  loan  as  a  secondary 
transaction to account for excess profits in the hands of one of the parties to 
the controlled transaction. The accrual of interest on the account could have 
its  own  tax  consequences,  however,  and  this  may  complicate  the  process, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

198 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

depending  upon  when  interest  begins  to  accrue  under  domestic  law  (as 
discussed in paragraph 4.69). Some jurisdictions may be willing to waive the 
interest charge on these accounts as part of a competent authority agreement.
4.77.  Where  a  repatriation  is  sought,  a  question  arises  about  how  such 
payments or arrangements should be recorded in the accounts of the taxpayer 
repatriating the payment to its associated enterprise so that both it and the tax 
administration  of  that  jurisdiction  are  aware  that  a  repatriation  has  occurred 
or has been set up. The actual recording of the repatriation in the accounts of 
the enterprise from whom the repatriation is sought will ultimately depend on 
the form the repatriation takes. For example, where a dividend receipt is to be 
regarded  by  the  tax  administration  making  the  primary  adjustment  and  the 
taxpayer receiving the dividend as the repatriation, then this type of arrangement 
may not need to be specially recorded in the accounts of the associated enterprise 
paying  the  dividend,  as  such  an  arrangement  may  not  affect  the  amount  or 
characterisation of the dividend in its hands. On the other hand, where an account 
payable is set up, both the taxpayer recording the account payable and the tax 
administration of that jurisdiction will need to be aware that the account payable 
relates to a repatriation so that any repayments from the account or of interest on 
the outstanding balance in the account are clearly able to be identified and treated 
according to the domestic laws of that jurisdiction. In addition, issues may be 
presented in relation to currency exchange gains and losses.
4.78.  As  most  OECD  member  countries  at  this  time  have  not  had  much 
experience with the use of repatriation, it is recommended that agreements 
between taxpayers and tax administrations for a repatriation to take place be 
discussed in the mutual agreement proceeding where it has been initiated for 
the related primary adjustment.

D. Simultaneous tax examinations

D.1.  Definition and background
4.79.  A simultaneous tax examination is a form of mutual assistance, used 
in a wide range of international issues, that allows two or more jurisdictions 
to  co-operate  in  tax  investigations.  Simultaneous  tax  examinations  can  be 
particularly useful where information based in a third jurisdiction is a key to a 
tax investigation, since they generally lead to more timely and more effective 
exchanges  of  information.  Historically,  simultaneous  tax  examinations  of 
transfer pricing issues have focused on cases where the true nature of trans-
actions was obscured by the interposition of tax havens. However, in complex 
transfer pricing cases, it is suggested that simultaneous examinations could 
serve a broader role since they may improve the adequacy of data available 
to  the  participating  tax  administrations  for  transfer  pricing  analyses.  It  has 
also  been  suggested  that  simultaneous  examinations  could  help  reduce 
the  possibilities  for  economic  double  taxation,  reduce  the  compliance 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 199

cost  to  taxpayers,  and  speed  up  the  resolution  of  issues.  In  a  simultaneous 
examination,  if  a  reassessment  is  made,  both  jurisdictions  involved  should 
endeavour to reach a result that avoids double taxation for the MNE group.

4.80.  Simultaneous tax examinations are defined in Part A of the OECD 
Model  Agreement  for  the  Undertaking  of  Simultaneous  Tax  Examinations 
(OECD Model Agreement). According to this agreement, a simultaneous tax 
examination means an “arrangement between two or more parties to examine 
simultaneously and independently, each on its own territory, the tax affairs of 
(a) taxpayer(s) in which they have a common or related interest with a view 
to exchanging any relevant information which they so obtain”. This form of 
mutual assistance is not meant to be a substitute for the mutual agreement 
procedure. Any exchange of information as a result of the simultaneous tax 
examination continues to be ex