 in the MNE group 
deemed by the Reporting MNE not to be resident in any tax jurisdiction for tax purposes. 
where a Constituent  Entity is resident in more than one tax jurisdiction, the applicable 
tax  treaty  tie  breaker  should  be  applied  to  determine  the  tax  jurisdiction  of  residence. 
where  no  applicable  tax  treaty  exists,  the  Constituent  Entity  should  be  reported  in  the 
tax jurisdiction of the Constituent  Entity’s place of effective management. The place of 
effective management should be determined in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 
of the OECD Model Tax Convention and its accompanying Commentary.

Revenues

In the three columns of the template under the heading Revenues, the Reporting MNE 
should  report  the  following  information:  (i)  the  sum  of  revenues  of  all  the  Constituent 
Entities  of  the  MNE  group  in  the  relevant  tax  jurisdiction  generated  from  transactions 
with associated enterprises; (ii) the sum of revenues of all the Constituent Entities of the 
MNE group in the relevant tax jurisdiction generated from transactions with independent 
parties; and (iii) the total of (i) and (ii). Revenues should include revenues from sales of 
inventory and properties, services, royalties, interest, premiums and any other amounts. 
Revenues should exclude payments received from other Constituent Entities that are treated 
as dividends in the payor’s tax jurisdiction.

Profit (Loss) before Income Tax

In the fifth column of the template, the Reporting MNE should report the sum of the 
profit  (loss)  before  income  tax  for  all  the  Constituent  Entities  resident  for  tax  purposes 
in  the  relevant  tax  jurisdiction.  The  profit  (loss)  before  income  tax  should  include  all 
extraordinary income and expense items.

Income Tax Paid (on Cash Basis)

In the sixth column of the template, the Reporting MNE should report the total amount 
of income tax actually paid during the relevant fiscal year by all the Constituent Entities 
resident for tax purposes in the relevant tax jurisdiction. Taxes paid should include cash 
taxes paid by the Constituent Entity to the residence tax jurisdiction and to all other tax 
jurisdictions. Taxes paid should include withholding taxes paid by other entities (associated 

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

34 – ANNEx III TO ChAPTER v. TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION – COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORT

enterprises and independent enterprises) with respect to payments to the Constituent Entity. 
Thus, if company A resident in tax jurisdiction A earns interest in tax jurisdiction B, the 
tax withheld in tax jurisdiction B should be reported by company A.

Income Tax Accrued (Current Year)

In the seventh column of the template, the Reporting MNE should report the sum of the 
accrued current tax expense recorded on taxable profits or losses of the year of reporting 
of  all  the  Constituent  Entities  resident  for  tax  purposes  in  the  relevant  tax  jurisdiction. 
The current tax expense should reflect only operations in the current year and should not 
include deferred taxes or provisions for uncertain tax liabilities.

Stated Capital

In the eighth column of the template, the Reporting MNE should report the sum of the 
stated capital of all the Constituent Entities resident for tax purposes in the relevant tax 
jurisdiction. with regard to permanent establishments, the stated capital should be reported 
by the legal entity of which it is a permanent establishment unless there is a defined capital 
requirement in the permanent establishment tax jurisdiction for regulatory purposes.

Accumulated Earnings

In the ninth column of the template, the Reporting MNE should report the sum of the 
total accumulated earnings of all the Constituent Entities resident for tax purposes in the 
relevant tax jurisdiction as of the end of the year. with regard to permanent establishments, 
accumulated earnings should be reported by the legal entity of which it is a permanent 
establishment.

Number of Employees

In the tenth column of the template, the Reporting MNE should report the total number 
of employees on a full-time equivalent (FTE) basis of all the Constituent Entities resident 
for tax purposes in the relevant tax jurisdiction. The number of employees may be reported 
as of the year-end, on the basis of average employment levels for the year, or on any other 
basis consistently applied across tax jurisdictions and from year to year. For this purpose, 
independent contractors participating in the ordinary operating activities of the Constituent 
Entity may be reported as employees. Reasonable rounding or approximation of the number 
of  employees  is  permissible,  providing  that  such  rounding  or  approximation  does  not 
materially distort the relative distribution of employees across the various tax jurisdictions. 
Consistent approaches should be applied from year to 