the decision of the 
extent of the authority it gives to the fund manager and objectives it assigns 
to  the  latter,  and  the  decision  of  the  amount  of  the  investment  that  it  asks 
this fund manager to manage. Moreover, the fund manager would generally 
be required to report back to the investor on a regular basis as the investor 
would want to assess the outcome of the fund manager’s activities. In such a 
case, the fund manager is providing a service and managing his business risk 
from his own perspective (e.g. to protect his credibility). The fund manager’s 
operational risk, including the possibility of losing a client, is distinct from 
his client’s investment risk. This illustrates the fact that an investor who gives 
to another person the authority to perform risk mitigation activities such as 
those performed by the fund manager does not necessarily transfer control of 
the investment risk to the person making these day-to-day decisions.

D.1.2.1.1. Step 1: Identify economically significant risks with specificity

1.71.  There are many definitions of risk, but in a transfer pricing context 
it is appropriate to consider risk as the effect of uncertainty on the objectives 
of the business. In all of a company’s operations, every step taken to exploit 
opportunities,  every  time  a  company  spends  money  or  generates  income, 
uncertainty exists, and risk is assumed. A company is likely to direct much 
attention to identifying uncertainties it encounters, in evaluating whether and 
how business opportunities should be pursued in view of their inherent risks, 
and in developing appropriate risk mitigation strategies which are important 
to shareholders seeking their required rate of return. Risk is associated with 
opportunities, and does not have downside connotations alone; it is inherent 
in  commercial  activity,  and  companies  choose  which  risks  they  wish  to 
assume  in  order  to  have  the  opportunity  to  generate  profits.  No  profit-
seeking  business  takes  on  risk  associated  with  commercial  opportunities 
without expecting a positive return. Downside impact of risk occurs when 
the  anticipated  favourable  outcomes  fail  to  materialise.  For  example,  a 
product may fail to attract as much consumer demand as projected. However, 
such an event is the downside manifestation of uncertainty associated with 
commercial  opportunities.  Companies  are  likely  to  devote  considerable 
attention to identifying and managing economically significant risks in order 
to maximise the positive returns from having pursued the opportunity in the 
face  of  risk.  Such  attention  may  include  activities  around  determining  the 
product strategy, how the product is differentiated, how to identify changing 
market  trends,  how  to  anticipate  political  and  social  changes,  and  how  to 
create demand. The significance of a risk depends on the likelihood and size 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

54 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

of the potential profits or losses arising from the risk. For example, a different 
flavour  of  ice-cream  may  not  be  the  company’s  sole  product,  the  costs  of 
developing, introducing, and marketing the product may have been marginal, 
the success or failure of the product may not create significant reputational 
risks  so  long  as  business  management  protocols  are  followed,  and 
decision-making may have been effected by delegation to local or regional 
management who can provide knowledge of local tastes. However, ground-
breaking  technology  or  an  innovative  healthcare  treatment  may  represent 
the sole or major product, involve significant strategic decisions at different 
stages, require substantial investment costs, create significant opportunities 
to make or break reputation, and require centralised management that would 
be of keen interest to shareholders and other stakeholders.

1.72.  Risks can be categorised in various ways, but a relevant framework 
in a transfer pricing analysis is to consider the sources of uncertainty which 
give  rise  to  risk.  The  following  non-exclusive  list  of  sources  of  risk  is  not 
intended to suggest a hierarchy of risk. Neither is it intended to provide rigid 
categories  of  risk,  since  there  is  overlap  between  the  categories.  Instead, 
it  is  intended  to  provide  a  framework  that  may  assist  in  ensuring  that  a 
transfer pricing analysis considers the range of risks likely to arise from the 
commercial or financial relations of the associated enterprises, and from the 
context in which those relations take place. Reference is made to risks that are 
externally driven and those that are internally driven in order to help clarify 
sources of uncertainty. However, there should be no inference that externally 
driven  risks  are  less  relevant  because  they  are  not  generated  directly  by 
activities. On the contrary, th