concluded  that  an  unrelated 
party would not be willing to provide such a loan to Company B due to its 
inability to repay the advance. Accordingly, the accurately delineated amount 
of  Company  C’s  loan  to  Company  B  for  transfer  pricing  purposes  would 
be a function of the maximum amount that an unrelated lender would have 
been willing to advance to Company B, and the maximum amount that an 
unrelated  borrower  in  comparable  circumstances  would  have  been  willing 
to  borrow  from  Company  C,  including  the  possibilities  of  not  lending  or 
borrowing  any  amount  (see  comments  upon  “The  lender’s  and  borrower’s 
perspectives” in Section C.1.1.1 of this chapter). Consequently, the remainder 
of Company C’s advance to Company B would not be delineated as a loan for 
the purposes of determining the amount of interest which Company B would 
have paid at arm’s length.

B.2. Identifying the commercial or financial relations

10.14. 
In determining the arm’s length conditions of financial transactions, 
the same principles apply as described in Chapters I-III of these Guidelines 
for any other controlled transaction.

10.15.  As with any controlled transaction, the accurate delineation of financial 
transactions  requires  an  analysis  of  the  factors  affecting  the  performance  of 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

406 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

businesses in the industry sector in which the MNE group operates. Because 
differences exist among industry sectors, factors such as the particular point of 
an economic, business or product cycle, the effect of government regulations, or 
the availability of financial resources in a given industry are relevant features 
that  have  to  be  considered  to  accurately  delineate  the  controlled  transaction. 
This  examination  will  take  account  of  the  fact  that  MNE  groups  operating 
in different sectors may require, for example, different amounts and types of 
financing  due  to  different  capital  intensity  levels  between  industries,  or  may 
require different levels of short-term cash balances due to different commercial 
needs  between  industries.  Where  the  relevant  MNEs  are  regulated,  such  as 
financial  services  entities  subject  to  regulations  consistent  with  recognised 
industry standards (e.g. Basel requirements), due regard should be had to the 
constraints those regulations impose upon them.3

10.16.  As described in Chapter I, the process of accurate delineation of the 
actual transaction also requires an understanding of how the particular MNE 
group responds to those identified factors. In this regard, the MNE group’s 
policies may inform the accurate delineation of the actual transaction through 
the consideration of, for instance, how the MNE group prioritises the funding 
needs  among  different  projects;  the  strategic  significance  of  a  particular 
MNE within the MNE group; whether the MNE group is targeting a specific 
credit rating or debt-equity ratio; or whether the MNE group is adopting a 
different funding strategy than the one observed in its industry sector (see 
Section B.3.5).

10.17. 
In  accordance  with  the  guidance  established  in  Chapter  I,  the 
accurate delineation of the actual transaction should begin with a thorough 
identification of the economically relevant characteristics of the trans action 
–  consisting  of  the  commercial  or  financial  relations  between  the  parties 
and  the  conditions  and  economically  relevant  circumstances  attaching  to 
those relations –, including: an examination of the contractual terms of the 
transaction,  the  functions  performed,  assets  used,  and  risks  assumed,  the 
characteristics  of  the  financial  instruments,  the  economic  circumstances 
of the parties and of the market, and the business strategies pursued by the 
parties.

10.18. 
In  common  with  the  analysis  of  any  other  transaction  between 
associated enterprises, in applying the arm’s length principle to a financial 
transaction it is necessary to consider the conditions that independent parties 
would have agreed to in comparable circumstances.

10.19. 
Independent  enterprises,  when  considering  whether  to  enter  into  a 
particular financial transaction, will consider all other options realistically 
available  to  them,  and  will  only  enter  into  the  transaction  if  they  see  no 

3. 

See footnote in Section D.1.2.1 of Chapter I of these Guidelines.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 407

alternative  that  offers  a  clearly  more  attractive  opportunity  to  meet  their 
commercial objectives (see paragraph 1.38 of Chapter I). In considering the 
options  realistically  available,  the  perspective  of  each  of  the  parties  to  the 
transaction  must  be  considered.  For  instance,  in  the  case  of  an  entity  that 
advances funds, other i