ular that it is sometimes applied 
without  adequately  taking  into  account  the  relevant  differences  between  the 
controlled and uncontrolled transactions being compared. Many jurisdictions 
are  concerned  that  the  safeguards  established  for  the  traditional  transaction 
methods may be overlooked in applying the transactional net margin method. 
Thus,  where  differences  in  the  characteristics  of  the  transactions  being 
compared  have  a  material  effect  on  the  net  profit  indicators  being  used,  it 
would not be appropriate to apply the transactional net margin method without 
making  adjustments  for  such  differences.  See  paragraphs  2.74-2.81  (the 
comparability standard to be applied to the transactional net margin method).

2.186.  The recognition that the use of transactional profit methods may be 
necessary  is  not intended to suggest that independent enterprises would use 
these  methods  to  set  prices.  As  with  any  method,  it  is  important  that  it  be 
possible to calculate appropriate corresponding adjustments when transactional 
profit  methods  are  used,  recognising  that  in  certain  cases  corresponding 
adjustments  may  be  determined  on  an  aggregate  basis  consistent  with  the 
aggregation principles in paragraphs 3.9-3.12.

2.187. 
In  all  cases,  caution  must  be  used  to  determine  whether  a  trans-
actional profit method as applied to a particular aspect of a case can produce 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

148 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

an arm’s length answer, either in conjunction with a traditional transaction 
method or on its own. The question ultimately can be resolved only on a case-
by-case basis taking into account the strengths and weaknesses set forth above 
for a particular transactional profit method to be applied, the comparability 
(including  functional)  analysis  of  the  parties  to  the  transaction,  and  the 
availability and reliability of comparable data. In addition, these conclusions 
assume that jurisdictions will have a certain degree of sophistication in their 
underlying tax systems before applying these methods.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS – 149

Chapter III 

Comparability analysis

A. Performing a comparability analysis

3.1. 
General guidance on comparability is found in Section D of Chapter I. 
By  definition,  a  comparison  implies  examining  two  terms:  the  controlled 
transaction  under  review  and  the  uncontrolled  transactions  that  are  regarded 
as  potentially  comparable.  The  search  for  comparables  is  only  part  of  the 
comparability analysis. It should be neither confused with nor separated from 
the comparability analysis. The search for information on potentially comparable 
uncontrolled  transactions  and  the  process  of  identifying  comparables  is 
dependent upon prior analysis of the taxpayer’s controlled transaction and of the 
economically relevant characteristics or comparability factors (see Section D.1 
of Chapter I). A methodical, consistent approach should provide some continuity 
or  linkage  in  the  whole  analytical  process,  thereby  maintaining  a  constant 
relationship  amongst  the  various  steps:  from  the  preliminary  analysis  of  the 
conditions of the controlled transaction, to the selection of the transfer pricing 
method, through to the identification of potential comparables and ultimately 
a  conclusion  about  whether  the  controlled  transactions  being  examined  are 
consistent  with  the  arm’s  length  principle  as  described  in  paragraph  1  of 
Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax Convention.

3.2. 
As part of the process of selecting the most appropriate transfer pricing 
method (see paragraph 2.2) and applying it, the comparability analysis always 
aims  at  finding  the  most  reliable  comparables.  Thus,  where  it  is  possible 
to  determine  that  some  uncontrolled  transactions  have  a  lesser  degree  of 
comparability than others, they should be eliminated (see also paragraph 3.56). 
This does not mean that there is a requirement for an exhaustive search of all 
possible sources of comparables as it is acknowledged that there are limitations 
in availability of information and that searches for comparables data can be 
burdensome. See also discussion of compliance efforts in paragraphs 3.80-3.83.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
150 – CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS

3.3. 
In order for the process to be transparent, it is considered a good practice 
for  a  taxpayer  that  uses  comparables  to  support  its  transfer  pricing,  or  a  tax 
administration that uses comparables to support a transfer pricing adjustment, 
to  provide  appropriate  supporting  information  for  the  other  interested  party 
(i.e. tax auditor, taxpayer or foreign competent authorities) to be able to assess 
the reliability of the 