 services  company  is  consistently  compensated  for  its 
aggregate  activities  by  other  group  members,  including  the  Country  B  and 
Country C manufacturing affiliates, on a cost plus basis, which, for purposes 
of this example, is assumed to be arm’s length compensation for the level and 
nature of services it provides.

1.191.  The independent supplier sells widgets for USD 10 apiece and follows 
a policy of providing a 5% price discount for bulk purchases of widgets in 
excess  of  7  500  units.  A  purchasing  employee  in  the  Country  D  shared 
services centre approaches the independent supplier and confirms that if the 
Country B and Country C manufacturing affiliates simultaneously purchase 
5 000 widgets each, a total group purchase of 10 000 widgets, the purchase 
discount  will  be  available  with  respect  to  all  of  the  group  purchases.  The 
independent supplier confirms that it will sell an aggregate of 10 000 widgets 
to  the  MNE  group  at  a  total  price  of  USD  95  000,  a  discount  of  5%  from 
the price at which either of the two manufacturing affiliates could purchase 
independently from the supplier.

1.192.  The purchasing employee at the shared services centre then places orders 
for  the  required  widgets  and  requests  that  the  supplier  invoice  the  Country  B 
manufacturing affiliate for 5 000 widgets at a total price of USD 50 000 and 
invoice the Country C manufacturing affiliate for 5 000 widgets at a total price 
of USD 45 000. The supplier complies with this request as it will result in the 
supplier being paid the agreed price of USD 95 000 for the total of the 10 000 
widgets supplied.

1.193.  Under  these  circumstances,  Country  B  would  be  entitled  to  make 
a  transfer  pricing  adjustment  reducing  the  expenses  of  the  Country  B 
manufacturing  affiliate  by  USD  2  500.  The  transfer  pricing  adjustment 
is  appropriate  because  the  pricing  arrangements  misallocate  the  benefit 
of  the  group  synergy  associated  with  volume  purchasing  of  the  widgets. 
The  adjustment  is  appropriate  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the  Country  B 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 91

manufacturing affiliate acting alone could not purchase widgets for a price 
less than the USD 50 000 it paid. The deliberate concerted group action in 
arranging the purchase discount provides a basis for the allocation of part of 
the  discount  to  the  Country  B  manufacturing  affiliate  notwithstanding  the 
fact that there is no explicit transaction between the Country B and Country C 
manufacturing affiliates.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 93

Chapter II 

Transfer pricing methods

Part I: Selection of the transfer pricing method

A.  Selection of the most appropriate transfer pricing method to the 

circumstances of the case

2.1. 
Parts  II  and  III  of  this  chapter  respectively  describe  “traditional 
transaction  methods”  and  “transactional  profit  methods”  that  can  be  used 
to establish whether the conditions imposed in the commercial or financial 
relations between associated enterprises are consistent with the arm’s length 
principle. Traditional transaction methods are the comparable uncontrolled 
price  method  or  CUP  method,  the  resale  price  method,  and  the  cost  plus 
method.  Transactional  profit  methods  are  the  transactional  net  margin 
method and the transactional profit split method.

2.2. 
The selection of a transfer pricing method always aims at finding the 
most appropriate method for a particular case. For this purpose, the selection 
process should take account of the respective strengths and weaknesses of the 
OECD  recognised  methods;  the  appropriateness  of  the  method  considered 
in view of the nature of the controlled transaction, determined in particular 
through  a  functional  analysis;  the  availability  of  reliable  information  (in 
particular on uncontrolled comparables) needed to apply the selected method 
and/or  other  methods;  and  the  degree  of  comparability  between  controlled 
and  uncontrolled  transactions,  including  the  reliability  of  comparability 
adjustments  that  may  be  needed  to  eliminate  material  differences  between 
them. No one method is suitable in every possible situation, nor is it necessary 
to prove that a particular method is not suitable under the circumstances.

Traditional  transaction  methods  are  regarded  as  the  most  direct 
2.3. 
means  of  establishing  whether  conditions  in  the  commercial  and  financial 
relations  between  associated  enterprises  are  arm’s  length.  This  is  because 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
94 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

any  difference  in  the  price  of  a  controlled  transaction  from  the  price  in 
a  comparable  uncontrolled  trans