s of the Guidelines to 
which they refer, those principles must be applied in each case according to the 
specific facts and circumstances of that case.

This example is provided for illustration purposes as it represents one way, but not 
necessarily the only way, in which such an adjustment can be calculated.

Furthermore,  the  comments  below  relate  to  the  application  of  a  transactional 
net  margin  method  in  the  situations  where,  given  the  facts  and  circumstances 
of  the  case  and  in  particular  the  comparability  (including  functional)  analysis 
of  the  transaction  and  the  review  of  the  information  available  on  uncontrolled 
comparables, such a method is found to be the most appropriate method to be used.

Introduction

1. 
This simple example shows how to make an adjustment in recognition 
of differences in levels of working capital between a tested party (TestCo) and 
a  comparable  (CompCo).  See  paragraphs  3.47-3.54  of  these  Guidelines  for 
general guidance on comparability adjustments. Working capital adjustments 
may  be  warranted  when  applying  the  transactional  net  margin  method.  In 
practice  they  are  usually  found  when  applying  a  transactional  net  margin 
method,  although  they  might  also  be  applicable  in  cost  plus  or  resale  price 
methods.  Working  capital  adjustments  should  only  be  considered  when  the 
reliability  of  the  comparables  will  be  improved  and  reasonably  accurate 
adjustments can be made. They should not be automatically made and would 
not be automatically accepted by tax administrations.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
490 – ANNEX TO CHAPTER III: EXAMPLE ON WORKING CAPITAL ADJUSTMENT

Why make a working capital adjustment?

In a competitive environment, money has a time value. If a company 
2. 
provided,  say,  60  days  trade  terms  for  payment  of  accounts,  the  price  of  the 
goods should equate to the price for immediate payment plus 60 days of interest 
on  the  immediate  payment  price.  By  carrying  high  accounts  receivable  a 
company is allowing its customers a relatively long period to pay their accounts. 
It would need to borrow money to fund the credit terms and/or suffer a reduction 
in the amount of cash surplus which it would otherwise have available to invest. 
In a competitive environment, the price should therefore include an element to 
reflect these payment terms and compensate for the timing effect.

3. 
The opposite applies to higher levels of accounts payable. By carrying 
high accounts payable, a company is benefitting from a relatively long period 
to pay its suppliers. It would need to borrow less money to fund its purchases 
and/or  benefit  from  an  increase  in  the  amount  of  cash  surplus  available  to 
invest. In a competitive environment, the cost of goods sold should include an 
element to reflect these payment terms and compensate for the timing effect.

4. 
A  company  with  high  levels  of  inventory  would  similarly  need  to 
either borrow to fund the purchase or reduce the amount of cash surplus which 
the company is able to invest. Note that the interest rate might be affected by 
the funding structure (e.g. where the purchase of inventory is partly funded 
by equity) or by the risk associated with holding specific types of inventory.

5. 
Making a working capital adjustment is an attempt to adjust for the 
differences  in  time  value  of  money  between  the  tested  party  and  potential 
comparables with an assumption that the difference should be reflected in 
profits. The underlying reasoning is that:

6. 

•  A company will need funding to cover the time gap between the time 
it invests money (i.e. pays money to supplier) and the time it collects 
the investment (i.e. collects money from customers)

•  This time gap is calculated as: the period needed to sell inventories 
to  customers  +  (plus)  the  period  needed  to  collect  money  from 
customers – (less) the period granted to pay debts to suppliers.
The process of calculating working capital adjustments:
a)  Identify  differences  in  the  levels  of  working  capital.  Generally 
trade  receivables,  inventory  and  trade  payables  are  the  three 
accounts  considered.  The  transactional  net  margin  method  is 
applied relative to an appropriate base, for example costs, sales or 
assets (see paragraph 2.64 of the Guidelines). If the appropriate 
base is sales, for example, then any differences in working capital 
levels should be measured relative to sales.

b)  Calculate  a  value  for  differences  in  levels  of  working  capital 
between  the  tested  party  and  the  comparable  relative  to  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX TO CHAPTER III: EXAMPLE ON WORKING CAPITAL ADJUSTMENT – 491

appropriate base and reflecting the time value of money by use 
of an appropriate interest rate.

c)  Adjust the result to reflect differe