ved. As a general rule, no payment should 
be recognised for transfer pricing purposes for simple recognition of group 
membership or the use of the group name merely to reflect the fact of group 
membership. See paragraph 7.12

6.82.  Where one member of the group is the owner of a trademark or other 
intangible for the group name, and where use of the name provides a financial 
benefit to members of the group other than the member legally owning such 
intangible,  it  is  reasonable  to  conclude  that  a  payment  for  use  would  have 
been  made  in  arm’s  length  transactions.  Similarly,  such  payments  may  be 
appropriate where a group member owns goodwill in respect of the business 
represented by an unregistered trademark, use of that trademark by another 
party  would  constitute  misrepresentation,  and  the  use  of  the  trademark 
provides a clear financial benefit to a group member other than that owning 
the goodwill and unregistered trademark.

6.83. 
In determining the amount of payment with respect to a group name, 
it is important to consider the amount of the financial benefit to the user of 
the name attributable to use of that name, the costs and benefits associated 
with  other  alternatives,  and  the  relative  contributions  to  the  value  of  the 
name made by the legal owner, and the entity using the name in the form of 
functions performed, assets used and risks assumed. Careful consideration 
should be given to the functions performed, assets used, and risks assumed 
by the user of the name in creating or enhancing the value of the name in 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

274 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

its jurisdiction. Factors that would be important in a licence of the name to 
an  independent  enterprise  under  comparable  circumstances  applying  the 
principles of Chapters I-III should be taken into account.

6.84.  Where an existing successful business is acquired by another successful 
business and the acquired business begins to use a name, trademark or other 
branding  indicative  of  the  acquiring  business,  there  should  be  no  automatic 
assumption that a payment should be made in respect of such use. If there is a 
reasonable expectation of financial benefit to the acquired company from using 
the acquiring company’s branding, then the amount of any payment should be 
informed by the level of that anticipated benefit.

6.85. 
It  may  also  be  the  case  that  the  acquiring  business  will  leverage 
the  existing  position  of  the  acquired  business  to  expand  the  business  of  the 
acquirer in the territory of operation of the acquired business by causing the 
acquired  business  to  use  the  acquirer’s  branding.  In  that  case,  consideration 
should be given to whether the acquirer should make a payment to or otherwise 
compensate the acquired business for the functions performed, risks assumed, 
and assets used (including its market position) in connection with expanded use 
of the acquirer’s name.

C. Transactions involving the use or transfer of intangibles

6.86. 
In addition to identifying with specificity the intangibles involved in a 
particular transfer pricing issue, and identifying the owner of such intangibles, 
it  is  necessary  to  identify  and  properly  characterise,  at  the  beginning  of 
any  transfer  pricing  analysis  involving  intangibles,  the  specific  controlled 
transactions  involving  intangibles.  The  principles  of  Chapter  I  apply  in 
identifying and accurately delineating transactions involving the use or transfer 
of intangibles. In addition to the guidance on identifying the actual transaction 
(Section  D.1  of  Chapter  I)  and  on  business  restructurings  (Chapter  IX, 
especially Part I), Section C of this chapter outlines some typical scenarios that 
may be useful in ascertaining whether intangibles or rights in intangibles are 
involved in a transaction. See Example 19. The characterisation of a transaction 
for  transfer  pricing  purposes  has  no  relevance  for  determinations  under 
Article 12 of the OECD Model Tax Convention. See, e.g. paragraphs 8 to 19 of 
the Commentary to Article 12 of the OECD Model Tax Convention.

6.87.  There are two general types of transactions where the identification 
and examination of intangibles will be relevant for transfer pricing purposes. 
These  are:  (i)  transactions  involving  transfers  of  intangibles  or  rights  in 
intangibles; and (ii) transactions involving the use of intangibles in connection 
with the sale of goods or the provision of services.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 275

C.1.  Transactions involving transfers of intangibles or rights in 

intangibles

C.1.1. Transfers of intangibles or rights in intangibles
6.88.  Rights  in  intangibles  themselves  may  be  transferred  in  controlled 
transactions.  Such  transactions  may  involve  a  transfer  of  all  rights  in