the important functions as reflected 
in  paragraph  6.56  or  contributing  to  the  control  over  the  economically 
significant  risks  as  established  in  paragraph  1.105,  and  for  which  it  is 
determined  that  an  arm’s  length  remuneration  of  these  functions  would 
include a profit sharing element.

B.3.  Identifying and determining the prices and other conditions 

for the controlled transactions

6.73.  Undertaking the analysis described in Section D.1 of Chapter I, as 
supplemented  by  this  Chapter,  should  facilitate  a  clear  assessment  of  legal 
ownership,  functions,  assets  and  risks  associated  with  intangibles,  and  an 
accurate identification of the transactions whose prices and other conditions 
require  determination.  In  general,  the  transactions  identified  by  the  MNE 
group  in  the  relevant  registrations  and  contracts  are  those  whose  prices 
and other conditions are to be determined under the arm’s length principle. 
However, the analysis may reveal that transactions in addition to, or different 
from, the transactions described in the registrations and contracts actually 
occurred. Consistent with Section D.1 of Chapter I, the transactions (and the 
true  terms  thereof)  to  be  analysed  are  those  determined  to  have  occurred 
consistent with the actual conduct of the parties and other relevant facts.

6.74.  Arm’s length prices and other conditions for transactions should be 
determined according to the guidance in Chapters I-III, taking into account 
the  contributions  to  anticipated  intangible  value  of  functions  performed, 
assets  used,  and  risks  assumed  at  the  time  such  functions  are  performed, 
assets are used, or risks are assumed as discussed in this Section B of this 
chapter. Section D of this chapter provides supplemental guidance on transfer 
pricing  methods  and  other  matters  applicable  in  determining  arm’s  length 
prices and other conditions for transactions involving intangibles.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 271

B.4. Application of the foregoing principles in specific fact patterns

6.75.  The principles set out in this Section B must be applied in a variety of 
situations involving the development, enhancement, maintenance, protection, 
and  exploitation  of  intangibles.  A  key  consideration  in  each  case  is  that 
associated  enterprises  that  contribute  to  the  development,  enhancement, 
maintenance,  protection,  or  exploitation  of  intangibles  legally  owned  by 
another  member  of  the  group  must  receive  arm’s  length  compensation  for 
the functions they perform, the risks they assume, and the assets they use. In 
evaluating whether associated enterprises that perform functions or assume 
risks related to the development, enhancement, maintenance, protection, and 
exploitation of intangibles have been compensated on an arm’s length basis, 
it is necessary to consider (i) the level and nature of the activity undertaken; 
and (ii) the amount and form of compensation paid. In assessing whether the 
compensation  provided  in  the  controlled  transaction  is  consistent  with  the 
arm’s  length  principle,  reference  should  be  made  to  the  level  and  nature  of 
activity of comparable uncontrolled entities performing similar functions, the 
compensation received by comparable uncontrolled entities performing similar 
functions,  and  the  anticipated  creation  of  intangible  value  by  comparable 
uncontrolled entities performing similar functions. This section describes the 
application of these principles in commonly occurring fact patterns.

B.4.1. Development and enhancement of marketing intangibles

6.76.  A common situation where these principles must be applied arises 
when an enterprise associated with the legal owner of trademarks performs 
marketing or sales functions that benefit the legal owner of the trademark, 
for  example  through  a  marketing  arrangement  or  through  a  distribution/
marketing  arrangement.  In  such  cases,  it  is  necessary  to  determine  how 
the  marketer  or  distributor  should  be  compensated  for  its  activities.  One 
important issue is whether the marketer/distributor should be compensated 
only  for  providing  promotion  and  distribution  services,  or  whether  the 
marketer/distributor  should  also  be  compensated  for  enhancing  the  value 
of the trademarks and other marketing intangibles by virtue of its functions 
performed, assets used, and risks assumed.

6.77.  The analysis of this issue requires an assessment of (i) the obligations 
and  rights  implied  by  the  legal  registrations  and  agreements  between  the 
parties; (ii) the functions performed, the assets used, and the risks assumed 
by the parties; (iii) the intangible value anticipated to be created through the 
marketer/distributor’s activities; and (iv) the compensation provided for the 
function