cost 
contribution arrangements. The concept of APAs also may be useful in resolving 
issues raised under Article 7 of the OECD Model Tax Convention relating to 
allocation problems, permanent establishments, and branch operations.
4.143.  APAs,  including  unilateral  ones,  differ  in  some  ways  from  more 
traditional private rulings that some tax administrations issue to taxpayers. 
An APA generally deals with factual issues, whereas more traditional private 
rulings tend to be limited to addressing questions of a legal nature based on 
facts presented by a taxpayer. The facts underlying a private ruling request 
may  not  be  questioned  by  the  tax  administration,  whereas  in  an  APA  the 
facts are likely to be thoroughly analysed and investigated. In addition, an 
APA usually covers several transactions, several types of transactions on a 
continuing basis, or all of a taxpayer’s international transactions for a given 
period of time. In contrast, a private ruling request usually is binding only for 
a particular transaction.
4.144.  The co-operation of the associated enterprises is vital to a successful 
APA negotiation. For example, the associated enterprises ordinarily would 
be  expected  to  provide  the  tax  administrations  with  the  methodology  that 
they consider most reasonable under the particular facts and circumstances. 
The  associated  enterprises  also  should  submit  documentation  supporting 
the  reasonableness  of  their  proposal,  which  would  include,  for  example, 
data relating to the industry, markets, and jurisdictions to be covered by the 
agreement. In addition, the associated enterprises may identify uncontrolled 
businesses  that  are  comparable  or  similar  to  the  associated  enterprises’ 
businesses  in  terms  of  the  economic  activities  performed  and  the  transfer 
pricing  conditions,  e.g.  economic  costs  and  risks  incurred,  and  perform  a 
functional analysis as described in Chapter I of these Guidelines.

4.145.  Typically,  associated  enterprises  are  allowed  to  participate  in  the 
process  of  obtaining  an  APA,  by  presenting  the  case  to  and  negotiating 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

216 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

with  the  tax  administrations  concerned,  providing  necessary  information, 
and  reaching  agreement  on  the  transfer  pricing  issues.  From  the  associated 
enterprises’ perspective, this ability to participate may be seen as an advantage 
over the conventional mutual agreement procedure.

4.146.  At the conclusion of an APA process, the tax administrations should 
provide confirmation to the associated enterprises in their jurisdiction that no 
transfer pricing adjustment will be made as long as the taxpayer follows the 
terms of the arrangements. There should also be a provision in an APA (perhaps 
by reference to a range) that provides for possible revision or cancellation of the 
arrangement for future years when business operations change significantly, 
or  when  uncontrolled  economic  circumstances  (e.g.  significant  changes  in 
currency exchange rates) critically affect the reliability of the methodology in 
a manner that independent enterprises would consider significant for purposes 
of their transfer pricing.
4.147.  An  APA  may  cover  all  of  the  transfer  pricing  issues  of  a  taxpayer 
(as  is  preferred  by  some  jurisdictions)  or  may  provide  a  flexibility  to  the 
taxpayer to limit the APA request to specified affiliates and intercompany 
transactions.  An  APA  would  apply  to  prospective  years  and  transactions 
and the actual term would depend on the industry, products or transactions 
involved.  The  associated  enterprises  may  limit  their  request  to  specified 
prospective  tax  years.  An  APA  can  provide  an  opportunity  to  apply  the 
agreed  transfer  pricing  methodology  to  resolve  similar  transfer  pricing 
issues  in  open  prior  years.  However,  this  application  would  require  the 
agreement of the tax administration, the taxpayer, and, where appropriate, 
the treaty partner. Element 2.7 of the Action 14 minimum standard states that 
jurisdictions with bilateral APA programmes should provide for the roll-back 
of APAs (to previous filed tax years not included within the original scope of 
the APA) in appropriate cases, subject to the applicable time limits (such as 
domestic law statutes of limitation for assessments) where the relevant facts 
and  circumstances  in  the  earlier  tax  years  are  the  same  and  subject  to  the 
verification of these facts and circumstances on audit.
4.148.  Each tax administration involved in the APA will naturally wish to 
monitor compliance with the APA by the taxpayers in its jurisdiction, and this 
is generally done in two ways. First, it may require a taxpayer that has entered 
into an APA to file annual reports demonstrating the extent of its compliance 
with