working  capital  within  the  calculation  of  the  net 
profit  indicator  and/or  to  proceed  with  a  working  capital  adjustment,  see 
paragraphs  3.47-3.54.  An  example  would  be  where  a  large  retail  business 
benefits from long credit terms with its suppliers and from short credit terms 
with its customers, thus making it possible to derive excess cash that in turn 
may  make  it  possible  to  have  lower  sales  prices  to  customers  than  if  such 
advantageous credit terms were not available.

2.88.  Whether  foreign  exchange  gains  and  losses  should  be  included  or 
excluded from the determination of the net profit indicator raises a number 
of difficult comparability issues. First, it needs to be considered whether the 
foreign exchange gains and losses are of a trading nature (e.g. exchange gain 
or loss on a trade receivable or payable) and whether or not the tested party is 
responsible for them. Second, any hedging of the foreign currency exposure 
on  the  underlying  trade  receivable  or  payable  also  needs  to  be  considered 
and  treated  in  the  same  way  in  determining  the  net  profit.  In  effect,  if  a 
transactional  net  margin  is  applied  to  a  transaction  in  which  the  foreign 
exchange risk is borne by the tested party, foreign exchange gains or losses 
should be consistently accounted for (either in the calculation of the net profit 
indicator or separately).

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 121

2.89. 
For  financial  activities  where  the  making  and  receiving  of  advances 
constitutes the ordinary business of the taxpayer, it will generally be appropriate 
to  consider  the  effect  of  interest  and  amounts  in  the  nature  of  interest  when 
determining the net profit indicator.

2.90.  Difficult comparability issues can arise where the accounting treatment 
of some items by potential third party comparables is unclear or does not allow 
reliable measurement or adjustment (see paragraph 2.81). This can be the case 
in particular for depreciation, amortisation, stock option and pension costs. The 
decision whether or not to include such items in the determination of the net 
profit indicator for applying the transactional net margin method will depend 
on a weighing of their expected effects on the appropriate ness of the net profit 
indicator  to the circumstances of the transaction and on the reliability  of the 
comparison (see paragraph 3.50).

2.91.  Whether  start-up  costs  and  termination  costs  should  be  included 
in  the  determination  of  the  net  profit  indicator  depends  on  the  facts  and 
circumstances  of  the  case  and  on  whether  in  comparable  circumstances, 
independent parties would have agreed either for the party performing the 
functions to bear the start-up costs and possible termination costs; or for part 
or all of these costs to be recharged with no mark-up, e.g. to the customer or 
a principal; or for part or all of these costs to be recharged with a mark-up, 
e.g. by including them in the calculation of the net profit indicator of the party 
performing the functions. See Chapter IX, Part I, Section F for a discussion 
of termination costs in the context of a business restructuring.

B.3.4. Weighting the net profit

2.92.  The  selection  of  the  denominator  should  be  consistent  with  the 
comparability  (including  functional)  analysis  of  the  controlled  transaction, 
and in particular it should reflect the allocation of risks between the parties 
(provided  said  allocation  of  risks  is  arm’s  length,  see  Section  D.1.2.1 
in  Chapter  I).  For  instance,  capital-intensive  activities  such  as  certain 
manufacturing  activities  may  involve  significant  investment  risk,  even  in 
those  cases  where  the  operational  risks  (such  as  market  risks  or  inventory 
risks) might be limited. Where a transactional net margin method is applied 
to  such  cases,  the  investment-related  risks  are  reflected  in  the  net  profit 
indicator if the latter is a return on investment (e.g. return on assets or return 
on capital employed). Such indicator might need to be adjusted (or a different 
net  profit  indicator  selected)  depending  on  what  party  to  the  controlled 
transaction bears that risk, as well as on the degree of differences in risk that 
may  be  found in the taxpayer’s controlled  transaction and in  comparables. 
See paragraphs 3.47-3.54 for a discussion of comparability adjustments.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

122 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

2.93.  The denominator should be focussed on the relevant indicator(s) of 
the value of the functions performed by the tested party in the transaction 
under review, taking account of its assets used and risks assumed. Typically, 
and subject to a review of the facts and circumstances of the case, sales or 
distribution operating e