r  apportionment  of  income  is  arm’s  length,  including  in  particular  an 
apportionment of income between a licensor and a licensee of intangibles.

6.145.  The transfer pricing methods most likely to prove useful in matters 
involving transfers of one or more intangibles are the CUP method and the 
transactional profit split method. Valuation techniques can be useful tools. 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 291

Supplemental  guidance  on  the  transfer  pricing  methods  most  likely  to  be 
useful in connection with transfers of intangibles is provided below.

D.2.6.1. Application of the CUP Method

6.146.  Where reliable comparable uncontrolled transactions can be identified, 
the  CUP  method  can  be  applied  to  determine  the  arm’s  length  conditions 
for  a  transfer  of  intangibles  or  rights  in  intangibles.  The  general  principles 
contained  in  paragraphs  2.14  to  2.26  apply  when  the  CUP  method  is  used 
in connection  with transactions involving the transfer of intangibles. Where 
the  CUP  method  is  utilised  in  connection  with  the  transfer  of  intangibles, 
particular consideration must be given to the comparability of the intangibles 
or  rights  in  intangibles  transferred  in  the  controlled  transaction  and  in  the 
potential  comparable  uncontrolled  transactions.  The  economically  relevant 
characteristics or comparability factors described in Section D.1 of Chapter I 
should be considered. The matters described in Sections D.2.1 to D.2.4 of this 
chapter are of particular importance in evaluating the comparability of specific 
transferred  intangibles  and  in  making  comparability  adjustments,  where 
possible. It should be recognised that the identification of reliable comparables 
in many cases involving intangibles may be difficult or impossible.

6.147. 
In  some  situations,  intangibles  acquired  by  an  MNE  group  from 
independent enterprises are transferred to a member of the MNE group in a 
controlled transaction immediately following the acquisition. In such a case 
the price paid for the acquired intangibles will often (after any appropriate 
adjustments,  including  adjustments  for  acquired  assets  not  re-transferred) 
represent  a  useful  comparable  for  determining  the  arm’s  length  price  for 
the controlled transaction under a CUP method. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances, the third party acquisition price in such situations will have 
relevance  in  determining  arm’s  length  prices  and  other  conditions  for  the 
controlled  transaction,  even  where  the  intangibles  are  acquired  indirectly 
through an acquisition of shares or where the price paid to the third party for 
shares or assets exceeds the book value of the acquired assets. Examples 23 
and 26 in Annex I to Chapter VI illustrate the principles of this paragraph.

D.2.6.2. Application of transactional profit split method

6.148.  In  some  circumstances,  a  transactional  profit  split  method  can  be 
utilised to determine the arm’s length conditions for a transfer of intangibles 
or rights in intangibles where it is not possible to identify reliable comparable 
uncontrolled transactions for such transfers. Section C of Chapter II contains 
guidance to be considered in applying transactional profit split methods. That 
guidance is fully applicable to matters involving the transfer of intangibles or 
rights in intangibles. In evaluating the reliability of transactional profit split 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

292 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

methods, however, the availability of reliable and adequate data regarding the 
relevant profits to be split, appropriately allocable expenses, and the reliability 
of factors used to divide the relevant income should be fully considered.
6.149.  Transactional profit split methods may have application in connection 
with  the  sale  of  full  rights  in  intangibles.  As  with  other  applications  of  the 
transactional profit split method, a full functional analysis that considers the 
functions performed, risks assumed and assets used by each of the parties is an 
essential element of the analysis. Where a transactional profit split analysis is 
based on projected revenues and expenses, the concerns with the accuracy of 
such projections described in Section D.2.6.4.1 should be taken into account.
6.150.  It  is  also  sometimes  suggested  that  a  profit  split  analysis  can  be 
applied to transfers of partially developed intangibles. In such an analysis, 
the relative value of contributions to the development of intangibles before 
and  after  a  transfer  of  the  intangibles  in  question  is  sometimes  examined. 
Such  an  approach  may  include  an  attempt  to  amortise  the  transferor’s 
contribution  to  the  partially  developed  intangible  over  the  asserted  useful 
life of that contribution, assuming no further develop