ut  making  adjustments  for  such 
differences.  The  extent  and  reliability  of  those  adjustments  will  affect  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 119

relative reliability of the analysis under the transactional net margin method. 
See discussion of comparability adjustments in paragraphs 3.47-3.54.
2.81.  Another important aspect of comparability is measurement consistency. 
The  net  profit  indicators  must  be  measured  consistently  between  the 
associated enterprise and the independent enterprise. In addition, there may 
be differences in the treatment across enterprises of operating expenses and 
non-operating  expenses  affecting  the  net  profits  such  as  depreciation  and 
reserves or provisions that would need to be accounted for in order to achieve 
reliable comparability.

B.3.2. Selection of the net profit indicator
2.82. 
In  applying  the  transactional  net  margin  method,  the  selection 
of  the  most  appropriate  net  profit  indicator  should  follow  the  guidance  in 
paragraphs  2.2  and  2.8  in  relation  to  the  selection  of  the  most  appropriate 
method to the circumstances of the case. It should take account of the respective 
strengths and weaknesses of the various possible indicators; the appropriateness 
of the indicator considered in view of the nature of the controlled transaction, 
determined  in  particular  through  a  functional  analysis;  the  availability  of 
reliable  information  (in  particular  on  uncontrolled  comparables)  needed  to 
apply  the  transactional  net  margin  method  based  on  that  indicator;  and  the 
degree  of  comparability  between  controlled  and  uncontrolled  transactions, 
including  the  reliability  of  comparability  adjustments  that  may  be  needed 
to  eliminate  differences  between  them,  when  applying  the  transactional  net 
margin method based on that indicator. These factors are discussed below in 
relation to both the determination of the net profit and its weighting.

B.3.3. Determination of the net profit
2.83.  As a matter of principle, only those items that (a) directly or indirectly 
relate to the controlled transaction at hand and (b) are of an operating nature 
should be taken into account in the determination of the net profit indicator 
for the application of the transactional net margin method.
2.84.  Costs and revenues that are not related to the controlled transaction 
under review should be excluded where they materially affect comparability 
with  uncontrolled  transactions.  An  appropriate  level  of  segmentation  of 
the taxpayer’s financial data is needed when determining or testing the net 
profit  it  earns  from  a  controlled  transaction  (or  from  transactions  that  are 
appropriately aggregated according to the guidance in paragraphs 3.9-3.12). 
Therefore,  it  would  be  inappropriate  to  apply  the  transactional  net  margin 
method  on  a  company-wide  basis  if  the  company  engages  in  a  variety  of 
different controlled transactions that cannot be appropriately compared on an 
aggregate basis with those of an independent enterprise.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

120 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

2.85.  Similarly, when analysing the transactions between the independent 
enterprises to the extent they are needed, profits attributable to transactions 
that are not similar to the controlled transactions under examination should 
be excluded from the comparison. Finally, when net profit indicators of an 
independent enterprise are used, the profits attributable to the transactions of 
the independent enterprise must not be distorted by controlled transactions 
of that enterprise. See paragraphs 3.9-3.12 on the evaluation of a taxpayer’s 
separate and combined transactions and paragraph 3.37 on the use of non-
transactional third party data.

2.86.  Non-operating  items  such  as  interest  income  and  expenses  and 
income  taxes  should  be  excluded  from  the  determination  of  the  net  profit 
indicator.  Exceptional  and  extraordinary  items  of  a  non-recurring  nature 
should  generally  also  be  excluded.  This  however  is  not  always  the  case 
as  there  may  be  situations  where  it  would  be  appropriate  to  include  them, 
depending  on  the  circumstances  of  the  case  and  on  the  functions  being 
undertaken and risks assumed by the tested party. Even where exceptional 
and extraordinary items are not taken into account in the determination of the 
net profit indicator, it may be useful to review them because they can provide 
valuable information for the purpose of comparability analysis (for instance 
by reflecting that the tested party bears a given risk).

2.87. 
In those cases where there is a correlation between the credit terms 
and  the  sales  prices,  it  could  be  appropriate  to  reflect  interest  income  in 
respect  of  short-term  