 
with  the  other  Competent  Authority  to  develop  appropriate  measures  to 
ensure that this Agreement is fulfilled. In particular, a Competent Authority 
shall consult with the other Competent Authority before the first-mentioned 
Competent Authority determines that there is a systemic failure to exchange 
CbC Reports with the other Competent Authority.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

592 – ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

SECTION 7
Amendments

This Agreement may be amended by consensus by written agreement of 
the Competent Authorities. Unless otherwise agreed upon, such an amendment 
is effective on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of 
one month after the date of the last signature of such written agreement.

SECTION 8
Term of Agreement

1. 
This Agreement will come into effect on […/the date of the later of 
the notifications provided by each Competent Authority that its Jurisdiction 
either has the necessary laws in place to require Reporting Entities to file a 
CbC Report].

2. 
A  Competent  Authority  may  temporarily  suspend  the  exchange  of 
information  under  this  Agreement  by  giving  notice  in  writing  to  the  other 
Competent Authority that it has determined that there is or has been significant 
non-compliance by the other Competent Authority with this Agreement. Before 
making such a determination, the first-mentioned Competent Authority shall 
consult with the other Competent Authority. For the purposes of this paragraph, 
significant  non-compliance  means  non-compliance  with  paragraphs  1  and  2 
of  Section  5  and  paragraph  1  of  Section  6  of  this  Agreement,  including  the 
provisions  of  the  Convention  referred  to  therein,  as  well  as  a  failure  by  the 
Competent  Authority  to  provide  timely  or  adequate  information  as  required 
under this Agreement. A suspension will have immediate effect and will last 
until  the  second-mentioned  Competent  Authority  establishes  in  a  manner 
acceptable  to  both  Competent  Authorities  that  there  has  been  no  significant 
non-compliance  or  that  the  second-mentioned  Competent  Authority  has 
adopted relevant measures that address the significant non-compliance.

3. 
Either Competent Authority may terminate this Agreement by giving 
notice  of  termination  in  writing  to  the  other  Competent  Authority.  Such 
termination will become effective on the first day of the month following the 
expiration of a period of 12 months after the date of the notice of termination. 
In  the  event  of  termination,  all  information  previously  received  under  this 
Agreement will remain confidential and subject to the terms of the Convention.

Signed in duplicate in […] on […].

Competent Authority for
[Jurisdiction A]

Competent Authority for
[Jurisdiction B]

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 593

Competent Authority Agreement on the Exchange of 
Country-by-Country Reports on the basis of  
a Tax Information Exchange Agreement (“TIEA CAA”)

Whereas,  the  Government  of  [Jurisdiction  A]  and  the  Government 
of  [Jurisdiction  B]  intend  to  increase  international  tax  transparency  and 
improve access of their respective tax authorities to information regarding the 
global allocation of the income, the taxes paid, and certain indicators of the 
location of economic activity among tax jurisdictions in which Multinational 
Enterprise (MNE) Groups operate through the automatic exchange of annual 
CbC Reports, with a view to assessing high-level transfer pricing risks and 
other base erosion and profit shifting related risks, as well as for economic 
and statistical analysis, where appropriate;

Whereas,  the  laws  of  their  respective  Jurisdictions  require  or  are 
expected to require the Reporting Entity of an MNE Group to annually file 
a CbC Report;

Whereas,  the  CbC  Report  is  intended  to  be  part  of  a  three-tiered 
structure,  along  with  a  global  master  file  and  a  local  file,  which  together 
represent a standardised approach to transfer pricing documentation which 
will  provide  tax  administrations  with  relevant  and  reliable  information  to 
perform an efficient and robust transfer pricing risk assessment analysis;

Whereas,  Article  [5A]  of  the  Tax  Information  Exchange  Agreement 
between  [Jurisdiction  A]  and  [Jurisdiction  B]  (the  “TIEA”),  authorises  the 
exchange of information for tax purposes, including the automatic exchange 
of  information,  and  allows  the  competent  authorities  of  [Jurisdiction  A] 
and  [Jurisdiction  B]  (the  “Competent  Authorities”)  to  agree  the  scope  and 
modalities of such automatic exchanges;

Whereas,  [Jurisdiction  A]  and  [Jurisdiction  B]  [have/are  expected  to 
have/have, or are expected to have,] in place by the ti