e of such research, and 
to pay for Company A’s services based on the cost plus margins earned by 
CROs like those with which Company A regularly transacts.

61. 
The  transfer  pricing  analysis  of  these  facts  begins  by  recognising 
that, following the transfer, Company S is the legal owner of the Product M 
intangibles under relevant contracts and registrations. However, Company A 
continues  to  perform  and  control  functions  and  to  manage  risks  related  to 
the  intangibles  owned  by  Company  S,  including  the  important  functions 
described  in  paragraph  6.56,  and  is  entitled  to  compensation  for  those 
contributions.  Under  these  circumstances,  Company  A’s  transactions  with 
CRO’s  are  not  comparable  to  the  arrangements  between  Company  S  and 
Company A related to Product M and may not be used as a benchmark for 
the arm’s length compensation required to be provided to Company A for its 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

620 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES

ongoing R&D activity with respect to the Product M intangibles. Company S 
does not perform or control the same functions or control the same risks in 
its transactions with Company A, as does Company A in its transactions with 
the CROs.

62.  While Company S is the legal owner of the intangibles, it should not 
be entitled to all of the returns derived from the exploitation of the intangibles. 
Because  Company  S  lacks  the  capability  to  control  research  related  risks, 
Company A should be treated as bearing a substantial portion of the relevant 
risk and Company A should also be compensated for its functions, including 
the important functions described in paragraph 6.56. Company A should be 
entitled to larger returns than the CROs under these circumstances.

63. 
A  thorough  examination  of  the  transaction  in  this  example  may 
show that it should accurately be delineated as the provision of financing by 
Company S equating to the costs of the acquired intangibles and the ongoing 
development. As a result, Company S is entitled to only a financing return. 
The level of the financing return depends on the exercising of control over the 
financing risk in accordance with the guidance in Section D.1 of Chapter I 
and the principles outlined in paragraphs 6.63 and 6.64. Company A would 
be entitled to retain the remaining income or losses.

Example 18

Primarni  is  organised  in  and  conducts  business  in  Country  A. 
64. 
Company S is an associated enterprise of Primarni. Company S is organised 
in and does business in Country B. Primarni develops a patented invention 
and manufacturing know-how related to Product X. It obtains valid patents 
in all countries relevant to this example. Primarni and Company S enter into 
a written licence agreement pursuant to which Primarni grants Company S 
the right to use the Product X patents and know-how to manufacture and sell 
Product X in Country B, while Primarni retains the patent and know-how 
rights to Product X throughout Asia, Africa, and in Country A.

65. 
Assume Company S uses the patents and know-how to manufacture 
Product X in Country B. It sells Product X to both independent and associated 
customers  in  Country  B.  Additionally,  it  sells  Product  X  to  associated 
distribution entities based throughout Asia and Africa. The distribution entities 
resell the units of Product X to customers throughout Asia and Africa. Primarni 
does not exercise its retained patent rights for Asia and Africa to prevent the 
sale of Product X by Company S to the distribution entities operating in Asia 
and Africa.

66. 
Under these circumstances, the conduct of the parties suggests that 
the  transaction  between  Primarni  and  Company  S  is  actually  a  licence  of 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 621

the Product X patents and know-how for Country B, plus Asia and Africa. 
In  a  transfer  pricing  analysis  of  the  transactions  between  Company  S  and 
Primarni, Company S’s licence should be treated as extending to Asia and 
Africa, and should not be limited to Country B, based on the conduct of the 
parties. The royalty rate should be recalculated to take into account the total 
projected sales by Company S in all territories including those to the Asian 
and African entities.

Example 19

Company  P,  a  resident  of  Country  A  conducts  a  retailing  business, 
67. 
operating several department stores in Country A. Over the years, Company P 
has  developed  special  know-how  and  a  unique  marketing  concept  for  the 
operation of its department stores. It is assumed that the know-how and unique 
marketing concept constitute intangibles within the meaning of Section A of 
Chapter  VI.  After  years  of  successfully  conducting  business  in  Country  A, 
Company P establishes a new subsidiary, Company S, in Country B. Company S 
opens  and