s performed by the marketer/distributor (taking account of the assets 
used and risks assumed). One relatively clear case is where a distributor acts 
merely as an agent, being reimbursed for its promotional expenditures and 
being directed and controlled in its activities by the owner of the trademarks 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

272 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

and  other  marketing  intangibles.  In  that  case,  the  distributor  ordinarily 
would be entitled to compensation appropriate to its agency activities alone. 
It  does  not  assume  the  risks  associated  with  the  further  development  of 
the trademark and other marketing intangibles, and would therefore not be 
entitled to additional remuneration in that regard.

6.78.  When the distributor actually bears the cost of its marketing activities 
(for example, when there is no arrangement for the legal owner to reimburse the 
expenditures), the analysis should focus on the extent to which the distributor 
is able to share in the potential benefits deriving from its functions performed, 
assets  used,  and  risks  assumed  currently  or  in  the  future.  In  general,  in 
arm’s length transactions the ability of a party that is not the legal owner of 
trademarks and other marketing intangibles to obtain the benefits of marketing 
activities that enhance the value of those intangibles will depend principally 
on  the  substance  of  the  rights  of  that  party.  For  example,  a  distributor  may 
have the ability to obtain benefits from its functions performed, assets used, 
and risks assumed in developing the value of a trademark and other marketing 
intangibles from its turnover and market share when it has a long-term contract 
providing  for  sole  distribution  rights  for  the  trademarked  product.  In  such 
a  situation  the  distributor’s  efforts  may  have  enhanced  the  value  of  its  own 
intangibles, namely its distribution rights. In such cases, the distributor’s share 
of  benefits  should  be  determined  based  on  what  an  independent  distributor 
would receive in comparable circumstances. In some cases, a distributor may 
perform functions, use assets or assume risks that exceed those an independent 
distributor  with  similar  rights  might  incur  or  perform  for  the  benefit  of  its 
own distribution activities and that create value beyond that created by other 
similarly  situated  marketers/distributors.  An  independent  distributor  in  such 
a  case  would  typically  require  additional  remuneration  from  the  owner  of 
the trademark or other intangibles. Such remuneration could take the form of 
higher distribution profits (resulting from a decrease in the purchase price of 
the product), a reduction in royalty rate, or a share of the profits associated with 
the enhanced value of the trademark or other marketing intangibles, in order to 
compensate the distributor for its functions, assets, risks, and anticipated value 
creation. Examples 8 to 13 in Annex I to Chapter VI illustrate in greater detail 
the application of this Section B in the context of marketing and distribution 
arrangements.

B.4.2.  Research, development and process improvement 

arrangements

6.79.  The  principles  set  out  in  the  foregoing  paragraphs  also  apply  in 
situations involving the performance of research and development functions 
by  a  member  of  an  MNE  group  under  a  contractual  arrangement  with  an 
associated  enterprise  that  is  the  legal  owner  of  any  resulting  intangibles. 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 273

Appropriate compensation for research services will depend on all the facts 
and  circumstances,  such  as  whether  the  research  team  possesses  unique 
skills and experience relevant to the research, assumes risks (e.g. where “blue 
sky” research is undertaken), uses its own intangibles, or is controlled and 
managed by another party. Compensation based on a reimbursement of costs 
plus a modest mark-up will not reflect the anticipated value of, or the arm’s 
length price for, the contributions of the research team in all cases.

6.80.  The  principles  set  out  in  this  section  similarly  apply  in  situations 
where a member of an MNE group provides manufacturing services that may 
lead to process or product improvements on behalf of an associated enterprise 
that will assume legal ownership of such process or product improvements. 
Examples 14 to 17 in Annex I to Chapter VI illustrate in greater detail the 
application  of  this  Section  B  in  the  context  of  research  and  development 
arrangements.

B.4.3. Payments for use of the company name

6.81.  Questions  often  arise  regarding  the  arm’s  length  compensation  for 
the use of group names, trade names and similar intangibles. Resolution of 
such questions should be based on the principles of this Section B and on the 
commercial and legal factors invol