of these transactions should recognise that 
Company  S  received  two  benefits  from  Zhu  which  require  compensation. 
First, it received services from the Zhu employees that were made available 
to  work  on  the  Bank  B  engagement.  Second,  it  received  rights  in  Zhu’s 
proprietary software which was utilised as the foundation for the software 
system delivered to Bank B. The compensation to be paid by Company S to 
Zhu should include compensation for both the services and the rights in the 
software.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 627

Example 25

Prathamika is the parent company of an MNE group. Prathamika has 
89. 
been engaged in several large litigation matters and its internal legal department 
has become adept at managing large scale litigation on behalf of Prathamika. In 
the course of working on such litigation, Prathamika has developed proprietary 
document management software tools unique to its industry.

90. 
Company  S  is  an  associated  enterprise  of  Prathamika.  Company  S 
becomes  involved  in  a  complex  litigation  similar  to  those  with  which  the 
legal  department  of  Prathamika  has  experience.  Prathamika  agrees  to 
make  two  individuals  from  its  legal  team  available  to  Company  S  to  work 
on  the  Company  S  litigation.  The  individuals  from  Prathamika  assume 
responsibility for managing documents related to the litigation. In undertaking 
this  responsibility  they  make  use  of  the  document  management  software 
of  Prathamika.  They  do  not,  however,  provide  Company  S  the  right  to  use 
the document management software in other litigation matters or to make it 
available to Company S customers.

91. 
Under  these  circumstances,  it  would  not  be  appropriate  to  treat 
Prathamika as having transferred rights in intangibles to Company S as part 
of the service arrangement. However, the fact that the Prathamika employees 
had  experience  and  available  software  tools  that  allowed  them  to  more 
effectively and efficiently perform their services should be considered in a 
comparability analysis related to the amount of any service fee to be charged 
for the services of the Prathamika employees.

Example 26

92. 
Osnovni  is  the  parent  company  of  an  MNE  Group  engaged  in  the 
development  and  sale  of  software  products.  Osnovni  acquires  100%  of  the 
equity  interests  in  Company  S,  a  publicly  traded  company  organised  in  the 
same country as Osnovni, for a price equal to 160. At the time of the acquisition, 
Company S shares had an aggregate trading value of 100. Competitive bidders 
for  the  Company  S  business  offered  amounts  ranging  from  120  to  130  for 
Company S.

Company S had only a nominal amount of fixed assets at the time of 
93. 
the acquisition. Its value consisted primarily of rights in developed and partially 
developed intangibles related to software products and its skilled workforce. 
The purchase price allocation performed for accounting purposes by Osnovni 
allocated 10 to tangible assets, 60 to intangibles, and 90 to goodwill. Osnovni 
justified the 160 purchase price in presentations to its Board of Directors by 
reference to the complementary nature of the existing products of the Osnovni 
group and the products and potential products of Company S.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

628 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES

94. 
Company T is a wholly owned subsidiary of Osnovni. Osnovni has 
traditionally licensed exclusive rights in all of its intangibles related to the 
European and Asian markets to Company T. For purposes of this example it 
is assumed that all arrangements related to the historic licences of European 
and Asian rights to Company T prior to the acquisition of Company S are 
arm’s length.

95. 
Immediately  following  the  acquisition  of  Company  S,  Osnovni 
liquidates  Company  S,  and  thereafter  grants  an  exclusive  and  perpetual 
licence to Company T for intangible rights related to the Company S products 
in European and Asian markets.

96. 
In determining an arm’s length price for the Company S intangibles 
licensed  to  Company  T  under  the  foregoing  arrangements,  the  premium 
over  the  original  trading  value  of  the  Company  S  shares  included  in  the 
acquisition price should be considered. To the extent that premium reflects the 
complementary nature of Osnovni group products with the acquired products 
in  the  European  and  Asian  markets  licensed  to  Company  T,  Company  T 
should pay an amount for the transferred Company S intangibles and rights in 
intangibles that reflects an appropriate share of the purchase price premium. 
To the extent the purchase price premium is attributable exclusively to product 
complementarities  outside  of  Company  T’s  markets,  the  purchase  price 
premium  should  not  be  taken  into 