 development  by  a  competitor  will  have  the  effect  of  making 
products based on the intangible in question obsolete or less desirable. It may 
also happen that the financial projections, on which calculations of ex ante 
returns and compensation arrangements are based, properly took into account 
risks and the probability of reasonably foreseeable events occurring and that 
the differences between actual and anticipated profitability reflects the playing 
out of those risks. Finally, it may happen that financial projections, on which 
calculations of ex ante returns and compensation arrangements are based, did 
not adequately take into account the risks of different outcomes occurring and 
therefore  led  to  an  overestimation  or  an  underestimation  of  the  anticipated 
profits. The question arises in such circumstances whether, and if so, how the 
profits or losses should be shared among members of an MNE group that have 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES – 269

contributed to the development, enhancement, maintenance, protection, and 
exploitation of the intangible in question.

6.70.  Resolution of this question requires a careful analysis of which entity 
or  entities  in  the  MNE  group  in  fact  assume  the  economically  significant 
risks as identified when delineating the actual transaction (see Section D.1 
of  Chapter  I).  As  this  analytical  framework  indicates,  the  party  actually 
assuming the economically significant risks may or may not be the associated 
enterprise  contractually  assuming  these  risks,  such  as  the  legal  owner  of 
the intangible, or may or may not be the funder of the investment. A party 
which is not allocated the risks that give rise to the deviation between the 
anticipated and actual outcomes under the principles of Sections D.1.2.1.4 to 
D.1.2.1.6 of Chapter I will not be entitled to the differences between actual 
and  anticipated  profits  or  required  to  bear  losses  that  are  caused  by  these 
differences  if  such  risk  materialises,  unless  these  parties  are  performing 
the  important  functions  as  reflected  in  paragraph  6.56  or  contributing 
to  the  control  over  the  economically  significant  risks  as  established  in 
paragraph 1.105, and it is determined that arm’s length remuneration of these 
functions would include a profit sharing element. In addition, consideration 
must be given to whether the ex ante remuneration paid to members of the 
MNE group for their functions performed, assets used, and risks assumed 
is, in fact, consistent with the arm’s length principle. Care should be taken 
to  ascertain,  for  example,  whether  the  group  in  fact  underestimated  or 
overestimated  anticipated  profits,  thereby  giving  rise  to  underpayments  or 
overpayments (determined on an ex ante basis) to some group members for 
their  contributions.  Transactions  for  which  valuation  is  highly  uncertain 
at  the  time  of  the  transaction  are  particularly  susceptible  to  such  under  or 
overestimations of value. This is further discussed in Section D.4.

B.2.5. Some implications from applying Sections B.1 and B.2

6.71. 

If the legal owner of an intangible in substance:

• 

• 

• 

performs  and  controls  all  of  the  functions  (including  the  important 
functions  described  in  paragraph  6.56)  related  to  the  development, 
enhancement, maintenance, protection and exploitation of the intangible;

provides all assets, including funding, necessary to the development, 
enhancement,  maintenance,  protection,  and  exploitation  of  the 
intangibles; and

assumes  all  of  the  risks  related  to  the  development,  enhancement, 
maintenance, protection, and exploitation of the intangible,

then it will be entitled to all of the anticipated, ex ante, returns derived 
from  the  MNE  group’s  exploitation  of  the  intangible.  To  the  extent  that 
one  or  more  members  of  the  MNE  group  other  than  the  legal  owner 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

270 – CHAPTER VI: INTANGIBLES

performs functions, uses assets, or assumes risks related to the development, 
enhancement,  maintenance,  protection  and  exploitation  of  the  intangible, 
such associated enterprises must be compensated on an arm’s length basis 
for their contributions. This compensation may, depending on the facts and 
circumstances, constitute all or a substantial part of the return anticipated to 
be derived from the exploitation of the intangible.

6.72.  The entitlement of any member of the MNE group to profit or loss 
relating to  differences between actual (ex post) and a proper estimation of 
anticipated (ex ante) profitability will depend on which entity or entities in 
the MNE group in fact assumes the risks as identified when delineating the 
actual transaction (see Section D.1 of Chapter I). It will also depend on the 
entity or entities which are performing 