costs 
incurred by the lender in raising the funds to lend. To this would be added the 
expenses of arranging the loan and the relevant costs incurred in servicing 
the  loan,  a  risk  premium  to  reflect  the  various  economic  factors  inherent 
in the proposed loan, plus a profit margin, which will generally include the 
lender’s incremental cost of the equity required to support the loan.

10.98.  One consideration to be kept in mind with the cost of funds approach 
is that it should be applied by considering the lender’s cost of funds relative 
to other lenders operating in the market. The cost of funds can vary between 
different prospective lenders, so the lender cannot simply charge based on its 
cost of funds, particularly if there is a potential competitor who can obtain 
funds more cheaply. A lender in a competitive market may seek to price at the 
lowest possible rate in order to win business. In the commercial environment, 
this will mean that lenders drive operating costs as low as possible and seek 
to minimise the cost of obtaining funds to lend.

10.99.  The application of the cost of funds approach requires consideration 
of the options realistically available to the borrower. On prevailing facts and 
circumstances, a borrowing MNE would not enter into a transaction priced 
under the cost of funds approach if it could obtain the funding under better 
conditions by entering into an alternative transaction.

10.100.  In  some  intra-group  transactions,  the  cost  of  funds  approach  may 
be  used  to  price  loans  where  capital  is  borrowed  from  an  unrelated  party 
which  passes  from  the  original  borrower  through  one  or  more  associated 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

424 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

intermediary  enterprises,  as  a  series  of  loans,  until  it  reaches  the  ultimate 
borrower.  In  such  cases,  where  only  agency  or  intermediary  functions  are 
being performed, as noted in paragraph 7.34, “it may not be appropriate to 
determine the arm’s length pricing as a mark-up on the costs of the services 
but rather on the costs of the agency function itself.”

C.1.2.4. Credit default swaps

10.101.  Credit default swaps reflect the credit risk linked to an underlying 
financial  asset.  In  the  absence  of  information  regarding  the  underlying 
asset  that  could  be  used  as  a  comparable  transaction,  taxpayers  and  tax 
administrations may use the spreads of credit default swaps to calculate the 
risk premium associated to intra-group loans.

10.102.  As financial instruments traded in the market, credit default swaps 
may  be  subject  to  a  high  degree  of  volatility.  This  volatility  may  affect 
the  reliability  of  credit  default  swaps  as  proxies  to  measure  the  credit  risk 
associated  to  a  particular  investment  in  isolation,  since  the  credit  default 
spreads  may  reflect  not  only  the  risk  of  default  but  also  other  non-related 
factors  such  as  the  liquidity  of  the  credit  default  swaps  contracts  or  the 
volume of contracts negotiated. Those circumstances could lead to situations 
where, for instance, the same instrument may have different credit default 
swaps spreads.

10.103.  Accordingly, the use of credit default swaps to approximate the risk 
premium associated to intra-group loans will require careful consideration of 
the above-mentioned circumstances to arrive at an arm’s length interest rate.

C.1.2.5. Economic modelling

10.104.  Certain industries rely on economic models to price intra-group loans 
by constructing an interest rate as a proxy to an arm’s length interest rate.

10.105.  In  their  most  common  variation,  economic  models  calculate  an 
interest rate through a combination of a risk-free interest rate and a number 
of premiums associated with different aspects of the loan – e.g. default risk, 
liquidity risk, expected inflation or maturity. In some instances, economic 
models would also include elements to compensate the lender’s operational 
expenses.

10.106.  The  reliability  of  economic  models’  outcomes  depends  upon  the 
parameters factored into the specific model and the underlying assumptions 
adopted.  In  evaluating  the  reliability  of  economic  models  as  an  approach 
to  pricing  intra-group  loans  it  is  important  to  note  that  economic  models’ 
outcomes do not represent actual transactions between independent parties and 
that, therefore, comparability adjustments would be likely required. However, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 425

in  situations  where  reliable  comparable  uncontrolled  transactions  cannot  be 
identified, economic models may represent tools that can be usefully applied 
in identifying an arm’s length price for intra-group loans, subject to the same 
constraints regarding market conditions discussed in paragraph 10.98.

C.1.2.6. Bank op