in Table 1. As a guide, rounding financial data to 
the nearest EUR 1 000, USD 1 000 or JPY 1 000 000 is likely to be considered reasonable. In all cases, 
amounts should be reported in full numbers, including all zeroes with no shortening. 

The  use  of  rounded  amounts  and  the  impact  on  the  usefulness  of  CbC  reporting  information  will  be 
monitored and this guidance may be revisited in light of the outcomes of this monitoring.  

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
  | 15 

Notes

1  For  example,  if  a  jurisdiction’s  law  allows  an  income  tax  loss  to  be  offset  against  a  liability  of  the 
Constituent Entity or MNE group for another tax or duty. 

2 For example, if a jurisdiction’s law allows a Constituent Entity to surrender income tax losses to a related 
party  that  is  not  consolidated  by  the  UPE  of  the  MNE  group,  in  return  for  which  the  Constituent  Entity 
receives a cash payment from the related party. 

3 For example, if a jurisdiction’s law allows a Constituent Entity which incurred income tax losses in the 
current year (20Y2) to carry these losses back and offset them against income tax profits in the previous 
year (20Y1), generating a repayment of income tax to the Constituent Entity. 

4 This replaces previous guidance issued in September 2018. 

5  This  paragraph  does  not  apply  where  a  Constituent  Entity  includes  in  profit  before  tax  for  financial 
reporting  purposes  an  amount  representing  all  or  part  of  the  profit  of  another  Constituent  Entity  that  is 
transparent for tax purposes. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
 
 
16 |   

3 Issues relating to the entities to be 

reported in the CbC report 

Application of CbC reporting to investment funds (June 2016) 

1.1 How should the CbC reporting rules be applied to investment funds?  

As stated in paragraph 55 of the Action 13 Report, there is no general exemption for investment funds. 
Therefore, the governing principle to determine an MNE Group is to follow the accounting consolidation 
rules.  For  example,  if  the  accounting  rules  instruct  investment  entities  to  not  consolidate  with  investee 
companies (e.g., because the consolidated accounts for the investment entity should instead report fair 
value of the investment through profit and loss), then the investee companies should not form part of a 
Group or MNE Group (as defined in the model legislation) or be considered as Constituent Entities of an 
MNE  Group.  This  principle  applies  even  where  the  investment  entity  has  a  controlling  interest  in  the 
investee company.  

On the other hand, if the accounting rules require an investment entity to consolidate with a subsidiary, 
such as where that subsidiary provides services that relate to the investment entity’s investment activities, 
then the subsidiary should be part of a Group and should be considered as a Constituent Entity of the MNE 
Group (if one exists).  

It is still possible for a company, which is owned by an investment fund, to control other entities such that, 
in  combination  with  these  other  entities,  it  forms  an  MNE  Group.  In  this  case,  and  if  the  MNE  Group 
exceeds the revenue threshold, it would need to comply with the requirement to file a CbC report. 

GUIDANCE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING: BEPS ACTION 13 © OECD 2024 

  
 
  | 17 

Application of CbC reporting to partnerships (June 2016)  

2.1 How should a partnership which is tax transparent and thus has no tax residency 
anywhere be included in the CbC report? How should a reverse hybrid partnership, 
which is tax transparent in its jurisdiction of organisation but considered by a partner’s 
jurisdiction to be tax resident in its jurisdiction of organisation, be treated?  

The governing principle to determine an MNE Group is to follow the accounting consolidation rules. If the 
accounting consolidation rules apply to a partnership, then that partnership may be a Constituent Entity of 
an MNE group subject to CbC reporting. 

For the purpose of completing the CbC report, if a partnership is not tax resident in any jurisdiction then 
the partnership’s items, to the extent not attributable to a permanent establishment, should be included in 
the line in table 1 of the CbC report for stateless entities. Any partners that are also Constituent Entities 
within the MNE Group should include their share of the partnership’s items in table 1 in their jurisdiction of 
tax residence.  

Table 2 of the CbC report should include a row for stateless entities and a sub-row for each stateless entity 
including partnerships that do not have a tax residence - that is, the reporting for stateless entities should 
parallel the reporting for Constituent Entities that have a tax residence. For a partnership included 