yers should misuse the burden 
of  proof  in  the  manner  described  above.  Because  of  the  difficulties  with 
transfer  pricing  analyses,  it  would  be  appropriate  for  both  taxpayers  and 
tax  administrations  to  take  special  care  and  to  use  restraint  in  relying  on 
the  burden  of  proof  in  the  course  of  the  examination  of  a  transfer  pricing 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

178 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

case.  More  particularly,  as  a  matter  of  good  practice,  the  burden  of  proof 
should not be misused by tax administrations or taxpayers as a justification 
for  making  groundless  or  unverifiable  assertions  about  transfer  pricing.  A 
tax administration should be prepared to make a good faith showing that its 
determination of transfer pricing is consistent with the arm’s length principle 
even where the burden of proof is on the taxpayer, and taxpayers similarly 
should be prepared to make a good faith showing that their transfer pricing 
is consistent with the arm’s length principle regardless of where the burden 
of proof lies.

4.17.  The Commentary on paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the OECD Model 
Tax  Convention  makes  clear  that  the  State  from  which  a  corresponding 
adjustment  is  requested  should  comply  with  the  request  only  if  that  State 
“considers  that  the  figure  of  adjusted  profits  correctly  reflects  what  the 
profits would have been if the transactions had been at arm’s length”. This 
means that in competent authority proceedings the State that has proposed 
the primary adjustment bears the burden of demonstrating to the other State 
that the adjustment “is justified both in principle and as regards the amount.” 
Both competent authorities are expected to take a cooperative approach in 
resolving mutual agreement cases.

B.3.  Penalties

4.18. 
Penalties  are  most  often  directed  toward  providing  disincentives 
for non-compliance, where the compliance at issue may relate to procedural 
requirements such as providing necessary information or filing returns, or to 
the substantive determination of tax liability. Penalties are generally designed 
to make tax underpayments and other types of non-compliance more costly 
than  compliance.  The  Committee  on  Fiscal  Affairs  has  recognised  that 
promoting compliance should be the primary objective of civil tax penalties. 
OECD Report Taxpayers’ Rights and Obligations (1990). If a mutual agreement 
results  in  a  withdrawal  or  reduction  of  an  adjustment,  it  is  important  that 
there  exist  possibilities  to  cancel  or  mitigate  a  penalty  imposed  by  the  tax 
administrations.

4.19.  Care should be taken in comparing different national penalty practices 
and  policies  with  one  another.  First,  any  comparison  needs  to  take  into 
account that there may be different names used in the various jurisdictions for 
penalties that accomplish the same purposes. Second, the overall compliance 
measures  of  a  jurisdiction  should  be  taken  into  account.  National  tax 
compliance practices depend, as indicated above, on the overall tax system 
in the jurisdiction, and they are designed on the basis of domestic need and 
balance, such as the choice between the use of taxation measures that remove 
or limit opportunities for non compliance (e.g. imposing a duty on taxpayers 
to cooperate with the tax administration or reversing the burden of proof in 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 179

situations where a taxpayer is found not to have acted in good faith) and the 
use  of  monetary  deterrents  (e.g.  additional  tax  imposed  as  a  consequence 
of  underpayments  of  tax  in  addition  to  the  amount  of  the  underpayment). 
The  nature  of  tax  penalties  may  also  be  affected  by  the  judicial  system  of 
a  jurisdiction.  Most  jurisdictions  do  not  apply  no-fault  penalties;  in  some 
jurisdictions,  for  example,  the  imposition  of  a  no-fault  penalty  would  be 
against the underlying principles of their legal system.

4.20.  There are a number of different types of penalties that tax jurisdictions 
have  adopted.  Penalties  can  involve  either  civil  or  criminal  sanctions  – 
criminal penalties are virtually always reserved for cases of very significant 
fraud,  and  they  usually  carry  a  very  high  burden  of  proof  for  the  party 
asserting the penalty (i.e. the tax administration). Criminal penalties are not 
the  principal  means  to  promote  compliance  in  any  of  the  OECD  member 
countries.  Civil  (or  administrative)  penalties  are  more  common,  and  they 
typically involve a monetary sanction (although as discussed above there may 
be a non-monetary sanction such as a shifting of the burden of proof when, 
e.g. procedural requirements are not met or the taxpayer is uncooperative and 
an effective penalty results from a