ared assumption of economically significant 
risks by all parties (or the separate assumption of closely related economically 
significant risks), the flexibility of the transactional profit split method can 
allow for the determination of arm’s length profits for each party that vary 
with the actual outcomes of the risks associated with the transaction.

2.122.  A further strength of the transactional profit split method is that all 
relevant parties to the transaction are directly evaluated as part of the pricing 
of the transaction, that is, the contributions of each party to the transaction are 
specifically identified and their relative values measured in order to determine 
an arm’s length compensation for each party in relation to the transaction.

2.123.  A weakness of the transactional profit split method relates to difficulties 
in  its  application.  On  first  review,  the  transactional  profit  split  method  may 
appear  readily  accessible  to  both  taxpayers  and  tax  administrations  because 
it  tends  to  rely  less  on  information  about  independent  enterprises.  However, 
associated  enterprises  and  tax  administrations  alike  may  have  difficulty 
accessing the detailed information required to apply a transactional profit split 
method reliably. It may be difficult to measure the relevant revenue and costs 
for  all  the  associated  enterprises  participating  in  the  controlled  transactions, 
which  could  require  stating  books  and  records  on  a  common  basis  and 
making adjustments in accounting practices and currencies. Further, when the 
transactional profit split method is applied to operating profit, it may be difficult 
to identify the appropriate operating expenses associated with the transactions 
and to allocate costs between the transactions and the associated enterprises’ 
other activities. Identifying the appropriate profit splitting factors can also be 
challenging.  Given  the  necessity  of  applying  judgement  in  determining  each 
of the parameters for the application of the transactional profit split method, it 
will be particularly important to document how the method has been applied, 
including the determination of the relevant profits to be split, and how the profit 
splitting factors were arrived at. See Sections C.4 and C.5.

2.124.  It is sometimes argued that a transactional profit split method is rarely 
used  among  independent  enterprises,  and  thus  its  application  in  controlled 
transactions  should  be  similarly  rare.  Where  such  a  method  is  determined 
to be the most appropriate, this should not be a factor since transfer pricing 
methods  are  not  necessarily  intended  to  replicate  arm’s  length  behaviour, 
but rather to serve as a means of establishing and/or verifying arm’s length 
outcomes for controlled transactions. That said, where there is evidence that 
independent  parties  in  comparable  transactions  apply  a  profit  split  method 
among  themselves,  such  evidence  should  be  considered  in  determining 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 131

whether a transactional profit split method is the most appropriate method for 
the controlled transactions. See paragraph 2.129.

C.2.2. Nature of the accurately delineated transaction

2.125.  The accurate delineation of the actual transaction will be important 
in  determining  whether  a  transactional  profit  split  is  potentially  applicable. 
This  process  should  have  regard  to  the  commercial  and  financial  relations 
between the associated enterprises, including an analysis of what each party 
to the transaction does, and the context in which the controlled transactions 
take place. That is, the accurate delineation of a transaction requires a two-
sided analysis (or a multi-sided analysis of the contributions of more than two 
associated enterprises, where necessary) irrespective of which transfer pricing 
method is ultimately found to be the most appropriate. (See Section D.1, and in 
particularly Section D.1.2 of Chapter I of these Guidelines.)

2.126.  The existence of unique and valuable contributions by each party to 
the controlled transaction is perhaps the clearest indicator that a transactional 
profit split may be appropriate. The context of the transaction, including the 
industry in which it occurs and the factors affecting business performance in 
that sector can be particularly relevant to evaluating the contributions of the 
parties and whether such contributions are unique and valuable. Depending 
on the facts of the case, other indicators that the transactional profit split may 
be the most appropriate method could include a high level of integration in 
the  business  operations  to  which  the  transactions  relate  and  /or  the  shared 
assumption  of  economically  significant  risks  (or  the  separate  assumption 
of closely related economically significant risks)