ated 
by  the  Competent  Authority  in  the  notification  pursuant  to  paragraph  1a)  of  Section  8, 
as  soon  as  possible  and  no  later  than  18  months  after  the  last  day  of  that  fiscal  year. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a CbC Report is only required to be exchanged, if both 
Competent Authorities have this Agreement in effect and their respective Jurisdictions have 
in effect legislation that requires the filing of CbC Reports with respect to the fiscal year 
to which the CbC Report relates and that is consistent with the scope of exchange provided 
for in Section 2.

Subject to paragraph 2, the CbC Report is to be exchanged as soon as possible and 
3. 
no later than 15 months after the last day of the fiscal year of the MNE Group to which the 
CbC Report relates.

The Competent Authorities will automatically exchange the CbC Reports through a 

4. 
common schema in Extensible Markup Language.

5. 
The Competent Authorities will work towards and agree on one or more methods for 
electronic data transmission, including encryption standards, with a view to maximising 
standardisation and minimising complexities and costs and will notify the Co-ordinating 
Body Secretariat of such standardised transmission and encryption methods.

SECTION 4
Collaboration on Compliance and Enforcement

A  Competent  Authority  will  notify  the  other  Competent  Authority  when  the  first-
mentioned Competent Authority has reason to believe, with respect to a Reporting Entity 
that is resident for tax purposes in the jurisdiction of the other Competent Authority, that 
an error may have led to incorrect or incomplete information reporting or that there is non-
compliance of a Reporting Entity with respect to its obligation to file a CbC Report. The 
notified Competent Authority will take appropriate measures available under its domestic 
law to address the errors or non-compliance described in the notice.

TRANSFER PRICING DOCUMENTATION AND COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING © OECD 2015

ANNEx Iv TO ChAPTER v. COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 49

SECTION 5
Confidentiality, Data Safeguards and Appropriate Use

1.  All information exchanged is subject to the confidentiality rules and other safeguards 
provided for in the Convention, including the provisions limiting the use of the information 
exchanged.

2. 
In  addition  to  the  restrictions  in  paragraph  1,  the  use  of  the  information  will 
be  further  limited  to  the  permissible  uses  described  in  this  paragraph.  In  particular, 
information received by means of the CbC Report will be used for assessing high-level 
transfer  pricing,  base  erosion  and  profit  shifting  related  risks,  and,  where  appropriate, 
for economic and statistical analysis. The information will not be used as a substitute for 
a detailed transfer pricing analysis of individual transactions and prices based on a full 
functional analysis and a full comparability analysis. It is acknowledged that information 
in the CbC Report on its own does not constitute conclusive evidence that transfer prices 
are or are not appropriate and, consequently, transfer pricing adjustments will not be based 
on  the  CbC  Report.  Inappropriate  adjustments  in  contravention  of  this  paragraph  made 
by  local  tax  administrations  will  be  conceded  in  any  competent  authority  proceedings. 
Notwithstanding the above, there is no prohibition on using the CbC Report data as a basis 
for making further enquiries into the MNE Group’s transfer pricing arrangements or into 
other tax matters in the course of a tax audit and, as a result, appropriate adjustments to the 
taxable income of a Constituent Entity may be made.

3. 
To  the  extent  permitted  under  applicable  law,  a  Competent  Authority  will  notify 
the  Co-ordinating  Body  Secretariat  immediately  of  any  cases  of  non-compliance  with 
paragraphs  1  and  2  of  this  Section,  including  any  remedial  actions,  as  well  as  any 
measures taken in respect of non-compliance with the above-mentioned paragraphs. The 
Co-ordinating Body Secretariat will notify all Competent Authorities with respect to which 
this is an Agreement in effect with the first-mentioned Competent Authority.

SECTION 6
Consultations

1. 
In case an adjustment of the taxable income of a Constituent Entity, as a result of 
further  enquiries  based  on  the  data  in  the  CbC  Report,  leads  to  undesirable  economic 
outcomes, including if such cases arise for a specific business, the Competent Authorities 
of the Jurisdictions in which the affected Constituent Entities are resident shall consult each 
other and discuss with the aim of resolving the case.

2. 
If any difficulties in the implementation or interpretation of this Agreement arise, 
a  Competent  Authority  may  request  consultations  with  one  or  more  of  the  Competent 
Authorities  to  develop  appropriate  measures  to  ensure  that  this  