therefore important to follow 
the guidance on internal comparables and on the sources of information on 
external comparables, see paragraphs 3.24-3.39. In addition, the “deductive” 
approach is not appropriate to all cases and all methods and the discussion in 
this section should not be interpreted as affecting the criteria for selecting a 
transfer pricing method set out in paragraphs 2.1-2.12.

3.43. 
In  practice,  both  quantitative  and  qualitative  criteria  are  used  to 
include or reject potential comparables. Examples of qualitative criteria are 
found  in  product  portfolios  and  business  strategies.  The  most  commonly 
observed quantitative criteria are:

•  Size  criteria  in  terms  of  Sales,  Assets  or  Number  of  Employees. 
The size of the transaction in absolute value or in proportion to the 
activities of the parties might affect the relative competitive positions 
of the buyer and seller and therefore comparability.

• 

Intangible-related criteria such as ratio of Net Value of Intangibles/Total 
Net Assets Value, or ratio of Research and Development (R&D)/Sales 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

162 – CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS

where available: they may be used for instance to exclude companies 
with  valuable  intangibles  or  significant  R&D  activities  when  the 
tested party does not use valuable intangible assets nor participate in 
significant R&D activities.

•  Criteria related to the importance of export sales (Foreign Sales/Total 

Sales), where relevant.

•  Criteria  related  to  inventories  in  absolute  or  relative  value,  where 

relevant.

•  Other  criteria  to  exclude  third  parties  that  are  in  particular  special 
situations such as start-up companies, bankrupted companies, etc. when 
such peculiar situations are obviously not appropriate comparisons.

The choice and application of selection criteria depends on the facts and 
circumstances of each particular case and the above list is neither limitative 
nor prescriptive.

3.44.  One  advantage  of  the  “deductive”  approach  is  that  it  is  more 
reproducible  and  transparent  than  the  “additive”.  It  is  also  easier  to  verify 
because the review concentrates on the process and on the relevance of the 
selection  criteria  retained.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  acknowledged  that  the 
quality  of  the  outcome  of  a  “deductive”  approach  depends  on  the  quality 
of  the  search  tools  on  which  it  relies  (e.g.  quality  of  the  database  where  a 
database is used and possibility to obtain detailed enough information). This 
can be a practical limitation in some jurisdictions where the reliability and 
usefulness of databases in comparability analyses are questionable.

3.45. 
It  would  not  be  appropriate  to  give  systematic  preference  to  one 
approach over the other because, depending on the circumstances of the case, 
there could be value in either the “additive” or the “deductive” approach, or 
in  a  combination  of  both.  The  “additive”  and  “deductive”  approaches  are 
often not used exclusively. In a typical “deductive” approach, in addition to 
searching public databases it is common to include third parties, for instance 
known competitors (or third parties that are known to carry out transactions 
potentially comparable to those of the taxpayer), which may otherwise not be 
found following a purely deductive approach, e.g. because they are classified 
under  a  different  industry  code.  In  such  cases,  the  “additive”  approach 
operates as a tool to refine a search that is based on a “deductive” approach.

3.46.  The  process  followed  to  identify  potential  comparables  is  one  of 
the  most  critical  aspects  of  the  comparability  analysis  and  it  should  be 
transparent,  systematic  and  verifiable.  In  particular,  the  choice  of  selection 
criteria has a significant influence on the outcome of the analysis and should 
reflect  the  most  meaningful  economic  characteristics  of  the  transactions 
compared. Complete elimination of subjective judgments from the selection 
of  comparables  would  not  be  feasible,  but  much  can  be  done  to  increase 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER III: COMPARABILITy ANALySIS – 163

objectivity and ensure transparency in the application of subjective judgments. 
Ensuring  transparency  of  the  process  may  depend  on  the  extent  to  which 
the criteria used to select potential comparables are able to be disclosed and 
the  reasons  for  excluding  some  of  the  potential  comparables  are  able  to  be 
explained.  Increasing  objectivity  and  ensuring  transparency  of  the  process 
may  also  depend  on  the  extent  to  which  the  person  reviewing  the  process 
(whether taxpayer or tax administration) has access to information regarding 
the process followed and to the same sources of data. Issues of documentation 
of the process