ide  a  brief  description  of  the  sources 
of data used in preparing the template in the Additional Information section 
of the template. If a change is made in the source of data used from year to 
year, the Reporting MNE should explain the reasons for the change and its 
consequences in the Additional Information section of the template.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX III TO CHAPTER V: C. TEMPLATE FOR THE COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORT – SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS – 555

C. Template for the Country-by-Country Report – Specific instructions

Overview of allocation of income, taxes and business activities by 
tax jurisdiction (Table 1)

Tax Jurisdiction

In  the  first  column  of  the  template,  the  Reporting  MNE  should  list  all 
of the tax jurisdictions in which Constituent Entities of the MNE group are 
resident for tax purposes. A tax jurisdiction is defined as a State as well as 
a  non-State  jurisdiction  which  has  fiscal  autonomy.  A  separate  line  should 
be  included  for  all  Constituent  Entities  in  the  MNE  group  deemed  by  the 
Reporting MNE not to be resident in any tax jurisdiction for tax purposes. 
Where  a  Constituent  Entity  is  resident  in  more  than  one  tax  jurisdiction, 
the  applicable  tax  treaty  tie  breaker  should  be  applied  to  determine  the  tax 
jurisdiction of residence. Where no applicable tax treaty exists, the Constituent 
Entity  should  be  reported  in  the  tax  jurisdiction  of  the  Constituent  Entity’s 
place of effective management. The place of effective management is the place 
where key management and commercial decisions that are necessary for the 
conduct of the entity’s business as a whole are in substance made. All relevant 
facts and circumstances must be examined to determine the place of effective 
management. An entity may have more than one place of management, but it 
can have only one place of effective management at any one time.

Revenues

In  the  three  columns  of  the  template  under  the  heading  Revenues,  the 
Reporting  MNE  should  report  the  following  information:  (i)  the  sum  of 
revenues  of  all  the  Constituent  Entities  of  the  MNE  group  in  the  relevant 
tax  jurisdiction  generated  from  transactions  with  associated  enterprises; 
(ii) the sum of revenues of all the Constituent Entities of the MNE group in 
the  relevant  tax  jurisdiction  generated  from  transactions  with  independent 
parties; and (iii) the total of (i) and (ii). Revenues should include revenues 
from sales of inventory and properties, services, royalties, interest, premiums 
and  any  other  amounts.  Revenues  should  exclude  payments  received  from 
other  Constituent  Entities  that  are  treated  as  dividends  in  the  payor’s  tax 
jurisdiction.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

556 – ANNEX III TO CHAPTER V: C. TEMPLATE FOR THE COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORT – SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS

Profit (Loss) before Income Tax

In the fifth column of the template, the Reporting MNE should report 
the sum of the profit (loss) before income tax for all the Constituent Entities 
resident  for  tax  purposes  in  the  relevant  tax  jurisdiction.  The  profit  (loss) 
before  income  tax  should  include  all  extraordinary  income  and  expense 
items.

Income Tax Paid (on Cash Basis)

In the sixth column of the template, the Reporting MNE should report 
the total amount of income tax actually paid during the relevant fiscal year 
by all the Constituent Entities resident for tax purposes in the relevant tax 
jurisdiction.  Taxes  paid  should  include  cash  taxes  paid  by  the  Constituent 
Entity  to  the  residence  tax  jurisdiction  and  to  all  other  tax  jurisdictions. 
Taxes paid should include withholding taxes paid by other entities (associated 
enterprises  and  independent  enterprises)  with  respect  to  payments  to  the 
Constituent Entity. Thus, if company A resident in tax jurisdiction A earns 
interest in tax jurisdiction B, the tax withheld in tax jurisdiction B should be 
reported by company A.

Income Tax Accrued (Current Year)

In the seventh column of the template, the Reporting MNE should report 
the  sum  of  the  accrued  current  tax  expense  recorded  on  taxable  profits  or 
losses of the year of reporting of all the Constituent Entities resident for tax 
purposes  in  the  relevant  tax  jurisdiction.  The  current  tax  expense  should 
reflect only operations in the current year and should not include deferred 
taxes or provisions for uncertain tax liabilities.

Stated Capital

In the eighth column of the template, the Reporting MNE should report the 
sum of the stated capital of all the Constituent Entities resident for tax purposes 
in the relevant tax jurisdiction. With regard to permanent establishments, the 
stated capital should be reported by the legal entity of which it is a permanent 
establishment unless there is a defined capital requirement in the