entify and evaluate the risks 
involved and to consider methods of monitoring and managing these risks. 
That credit assessment will include understanding the business itself as well 
as the purpose of the loan, how it is to be structured and the source of its 
repayment which may include analysis of the borrower’s cash flow forecasts 
and the strength of the borrower’s balance sheet.

10.55.  When an enterprise is making a loan to an associated enterprise, it 
will not necessarily follow all of the same processes as an independent lender. 
For example, it may not need to go through the same process of information 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

414 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

gathering  about  the  borrower’s  business,  as  the  required  information  may 
already be readily available within the MNE group. However, in considering 
whether the loan has been made on conditions which would have been made 
between independent enterprises, the same commercial considerations such 
as creditworthiness, credit risk and economic circumstances are relevant.

In  the  case  of  a  loan  from  the  parent  entity  of  an  MNE  group  to  a 
10.56. 
subsidiary, the parent already has control and ownership of the subsidiary, which 
would make the granting of security less relevant to its risk analysis as a lender. 
Therefore, in evaluating the pricing of a loan between associated enterprises it 
is important to consider that the absence of contractual rights over the assets 
of the borrowing entity does not necessarily reflect the economic reality of the 
risk inherent in the loan. If the assets of the business are not already pledged as 
security elsewhere, it will be appropriate to consider under Chapter I analysis 
whether those assets are available to act as collateral for the otherwise unsecured 
loan and the consequential impact upon the pricing of the loan.

10.57.  Credit risk for the lender is the potential that the borrower will fail 
to  meet  its  payment  obligations  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  loan. 
In  deciding  whether  a  prospective  loan  is  a  good  commercial  opportunity, 
a  lender  will  also  consider  the  potential  impact  of  changes  which  could 
happen in economic conditions affecting the credit risk it bears, not only in 
relation to the conditions of the borrower but in relation to potential changes 
in economic conditions, such as a rise in interest rates, or the exposure of the 
borrower to movements in exchange rates.

10.58.  Borrowers  seek  to  optimise  their  weighted  average  cost  of  capital 
and  to  have  the  right  funding  available  to  meet  both  short-term  needs  and 
long-term objectives. When considering the options realistically available to 
it, an independent business seeking funding operating in its own commercial 
interests  will  seek  the  most  cost  effective  solution,  with  regard  to  the 
business strategy it has adopted. For example in respect of collateral, in some 
circumstances, assuming that the business has suitable collateral to offer, this 
would usually be secured funding, ahead of unsecured funding, recognising 
that  a  business’s  collateral  assets  and  its  funding  requirements  may  differ 
over time, e.g. because collateral is finite, the decision to pledge collateral 
on a particular borrowing precludes the borrower from pledging that same 
collateral on a subsequent borrowing. Therefore, an MNE pledging collateral 
would take into account its options realistically available regarding its overall 
financing (e.g. possible subsequent loan transactions).

10.59.  Borrowers  will  also  consider  the  potential  impact  of  changes  in 
economic conditions such as interest rates and exchange rates, as well as the 
risk of not being able to make timely payments of interest and principal on 
the loan if the borrower’s business encounters unexpected difficulties, and the 
risk of not being able to raise more capital (either debt or equity) if necessary.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 415

10.60.  Macroeconomic circumstances may lead to changes in the financing 
costs in the market. In such a context, a transfer pricing analysis with regard 
to the possibilities of the borrower or the lender to renegotiate the terms of 
the  loan  to  benefit  from  better  conditions  will  be  informed  by  the  options 
realistically available to both the borrower and the lender.

10.61.  The  economic  conditions  of  loans  should  also  be  viewed  in  the 
context of regulations that may affect the position of the parties. For example, 
insolvency law in the jurisdiction of the borrower may provide that liabilities 
towards  associated  enterprises  are  subordinated  to  liabilities  towards 
unrelated parties.

C.1.1.2. Use of credit ratings

10.62.  The creditworthiness of the borrower is one of the main factors that 
independent  investors  take  