ter taking advice from employees of Company S. Premiere’s 
management,  and  not  the  employees  of  Company  S,  controls  all  decisions 
regarding licensing of the group’s patents to both independent and associated 
enterprises.

3. 
At the time of each assignment of rights from Premiere to Company S, 
Company S makes a nominal EUR 100 payment to Premiere in consideration 
of  the  assignment  of  rights  to  a  patentable  invention  and,  as  a  specific 
condition of the assignment, simultaneously grants to Premiere an exclusive, 
royalty free, patent licence, with full rights to sub-licence, for the full life of 
the patent to be registered. The nominal payments of Company S to Premiere 
are made purely to satisfy technical contract law requirements related to the 
assignments  and,  for  purposes  of  this  example,  it  is  assumed  that  they  do 
not  reflect  arm’s  length  compensation  for  the  assigned  rights  to  patentable 
inventions. Premiere uses the patented inventions in manufacturing and selling 
its products throughout the world and from time to time sublicenses patent 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
602 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES

rights to others. Company S makes no commercial use of the patents nor is it 
entitled to do so under the terms of the licence agreement with Premiere.

4. 
Under the agreement, Premiere performs all functions related to the 
development, enhancement, maintenance, protection and exploitation of the 
intangibles  except  for  patent  administration  services.  Premiere  contributes 
and uses all assets associated with the development and exploitation of the 
intangible, and assumes all or substantially all of the risks associated with 
the intangibles. Premiere should be entitled to the bulk of the returns derived 
from exploitation of the intangibles. Tax administrations could arrive at an 
appropriate  transfer  pricing  solution  by  delineating  the  actual  transaction 
undertaken  between  Premiere  and  Company  S.  Depending  on  the  facts,  it 
might  be  determined  that  taken  together  the  nominal  assignment  of  rights 
to Company S and the simultaneous grant of full exploitation rights back to 
Premiere  reflect  in  substance  a  patent  administration  service  arrangement 
between  Premiere  and  Company  S.  An  arm’s  length  price  would  be 
determined for the patent administration services and Premiere would retain 
or be allocated the balance of the returns derived by the MNE group from the 
exploitation of the patents.

Example 2

5. 
The  facts  related  to  the  development  and  control  of  patentable 
inventions  are  the  same  as  in  Example  1.  However,  instead  of  granting  a 
perpetual and exclusive licence of its patents back to Premiere, Company S, 
acting under the direction and control of Premiere, grants licences of its patents 
to associated and independent enterprises throughout the world in exchange for 
periodic royalties. For purposes of this example, it is assumed that the royalties 
paid to Company S by associated enterprises are all arm’s length.

6. 
Company S is the legal owner of the patents. However, its contributions 
to the development, enhancement, maintenance, protection, and exploitation of 
the patents are limited to the activities of its three employees in registering the 
patents and maintaining the patent registrations. The Company S employees 
do not control or participate in the licensing transactions involving the patents. 
Under these circumstances, Company S is only entitled to compensation for 
the  functions  it  performs.  Based  on  an  analysis  of  the  respective  functions 
performed,  assets  used,  and  risks  assumed  by  Premiere  and  Company  S  in 
developing, enhancing, maintaining, protecting, and exploiting the intangibles, 
Company S should not be entitled ultimately to retain or be attributed income 
from its licensing arrangements over and above the arm’s length compensation 
for its patent registration functions.

7. 
As  in  Example  1  the  true  nature  of  the  arrangement  is  a  patent 
administration  service  contract.  The  appropriate  transfer  pricing  outcome 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 603

can be achieved by ensuring that the amount paid by Company S in exchange 
for  the  assignments  of  patent  rights  appropriately  reflects  the  respective 
functions  performed,  assets  used,  and  risks  assumed  by  Premiere  and  by 
Company S. Under such an approach, the compensation due to Premiere for 
the patentable inventions is equal to the licensing revenue of Company S less 
an appropriate return to the functions Company S performs.

Example 3

8. 
The facts are the same as in Example 2. However, after licensing the 
patents to associated and independent enterprises for a few years, Company S, 
again acting under the direction and contr