S

that the benefits of safe harbours outweigh the related concerns when such 
rules are carefully targeted and prescribed and when efforts are made to avoid 
the problems that could arise from poorly considered safe harbour regimes.

4.98.  The  appropriateness  of  safe  harbours  can  be  expected  to  be  most 
apparent  when  they  are  directed  at  taxpayers  and/or  transactions  which 
involve low transfer pricing risks and when they are adopted on a bilateral 
or  multilateral  basis.  It  should  be  recognised  that  a  safe  harbour  provision 
does not bind or limit in any way any tax administration other than the tax 
administration that has expressly adopted the safe harbour.

4.99.  Although safe harbours primarily benefit taxpayers, by providing for 
a more optimal use of resources, they can benefit tax administrations as well. 
Tax administrations can shift audit and examination resources from smaller 
taxpayers  and  less  complex  transactions  (which  may  typically  be  resolved 
in practice on a consistent basis as to both transfer pricing methodology and 
actual results) to more complex, higher-risk cases. At the same time, taxpayers 
can price eligible transactions and file their tax returns with more certainty and 
with lower compliance burdens. However, the design of safe harbours requires 
careful  attention  to  concerns  about  the  degree  of  approximation  to  arm’s 
length prices that would be permitted in determining transfer prices under safe 
harbour  rules  for  eligible  taxpayers,  the  potential  for  creating  inappropriate 
tax planning opportunities including double non-taxation of income, equitable 
treatment of similarly situated taxpayers, and the potential for double taxation 
resulting from the possible incompatibility of the safe harbours with the arm’s 
length principle or with the practices of other jurisdictions.

4.100.  The  following  discussion  considers  the  benefits  of,  and  concerns 
regarding,  safe  harbour  provisions  and  provides  guidance  regarding  the 
circumstances in which safe harbours may be applied in a transfer pricing 
system based on the arm’s length principle.

E.2.  Definition and concept of safe harbours

4.101.  Some  of  the  difficulties  that  arise  in  applying  the  arm’s  length 
principle  may  be  avoided  by  providing  circumstances  in  which  eligible 
taxpayers  may  elect  to  follow  a  simple  set  of  prescribed  transfer  pricing 
rules in connection with clearly and carefully defined transactions, or may 
be  exempted  from  the  application  of  the  general  transfer  pricing  rules.  In 
the former case, prices established under such rules would be automatically 
accepted by the tax administrations that have expressly adopted such rules. 
These elective provisions are often referred to as “safe harbours”.

4.102.  A safe harbour in a transfer pricing regime is a provision that applies 
to a defined category of taxpayers or transactions and that relieves eligible 
taxpayers  from  certain  obligations  otherwise  imposed  by  a  jurisdiction’s 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 205

general transfer pricing rules. A safe harbour substitutes simpler obligations 
for those under the general transfer pricing regime. Such a provision could, 
for example, allow taxpayers to establish transfer prices in a specific way, 
e.g. by applying a simplified transfer pricing approach provided by the tax 
administration. Alternatively, a safe harbour could exempt a defined category 
of taxpayers or transactions from the application of all or part of the general 
transfer  pricing  rules.  Often,  eligible  taxpayers  complying  with  the  safe 
harbour provision will be relieved from burdensome compliance obligations, 
including some or all associated transfer pricing documentation requirements.

4.103.  For purposes of the discussion in this Section, safe harbours do not 
include administrative simplification measures which do not directly involve 
determination  of  arm’s  length  prices,  e.g.  simplified,  or  exemption  from, 
documentation  requirements  (in  the  absence  of  a  pricing  determination), 
and  procedures  whereby  a  tax  administration  and  a  taxpayer  agree  on 
transfer  pricing  in  advance  of  the  controlled  transactions  (advance  pricing 
arrangements),  which  are  discussed  in  Section  F  of  this  chapter.  The 
discussion in this section also does not extend to tax provisions designed to 
prevent “excessive” debt in a foreign subsidiary (“thin capitalisation” rules).

4.104.  Although they would not fully meet the foregoing description of a safe 
harbour, it may be the case that some jurisdictions adopt other administrative 
simplification measures that use presumptions to realise some of the benefits 
discussed  in  this  Section.  For  example,  a  rebuttable  presumption  might  be 
established under which a mandatory p