e 9 of the 2017 OECD Model Tax Convention and also with the Commentary 
as  it  would  read  with  proposed  changes  that  have  been  agreed  by  Working 
Party No. 1. The guidance might be revised in the event that those proposals are 
materially changed at any stage.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
404 – CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS

circumstances.  This  situation  may  affect  the  amount  of  interest  payable 
by  the  borrowing  entity  and  so  may  affect  the  profits  accruing  in  a  given 
jurisdiction.

10.5.  Commentary to Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax Convention notes 
in paragraph 3(b) that Article 9 is relevant “not only in determining whether 
the  rate  of  interest  provided  for  in  a  loan  contract  is  an  arm’s  length  rate, 
but also whether a prima facie loan can be regarded as a loan or should be 
regarded as some other kind of payment, in particular a contribution to equity 
capital.”2

In the context of the preceding paragraphs, this subsection elaborates 
10.6. 
on how the concepts of Chapter I, in particular the accurate delineation of the 
actual transaction under Section D.1, may relate to the balance of debt and 
equity funding of an entity within an MNE group.

10.7.  Where  it  is  considered  that  the  arrangements  made  in  relation  to 
the  transaction,  viewed  in  their  totality,  differ  from  those  which  would 
have been adopted by independent enterprises behaving in a commercially 
rational manner in comparable circumstances, the guidance in Section D.2 of 
Chapter I may also be relevant.

10.8.  Although this guidance reflects an approach of accurate delineation 
of  the  actual  transaction  in  accordance  with  Chapter  I  to  determine  the 
amount of debt to be priced, it is acknowledged that other approaches may 
be taken to address the issue of the balance of debt and equity funding of 
an entity under domestic legislation before pricing the interest on the debt 
so determined. These approaches may include a multi-factor analysis of the 
characteristics of the instrument and the issuer.

10.9.  Accordingly,  this  guidance  is  not  intended  to  prevent  jurisdictions 
from  implementing  approaches  to  address  the  balance  of  debt  and  equity 
funding  of  an  entity  and  interest  deductibility  under  domestic  legislation, 
nor does it seek to mandate accurate delineation under Chapter I as the only 
approach for determining whether purported debt should be respected as debt.

10.10.  Although jurisdictions may have different views on the application 
of Article 9 to determine the balance of debt and equity funding of an entity 
within an MNE group, the purpose of this section is to provide guidance for 
jurisdictions that use the accurate delineation under Chapter I to determine 
whether  a  purported  loan  should  be  regarded  as  a  loan  for  tax  purposes 
(or  should  be  regarded  as  some  other  kind  of  payment,  in  particular  a 
contribution to equity capital).

2. 

As discussed in the Committee on Fiscal Affairs’ Report on “Thin Capitalisation” 
adopted by the Council of the OECD on 26 November 1986 and reproduced in 
Volume II of the full version of the OECD MTC at page R (4)-1.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 405

10.11.  Particular labels or descriptions assigned to financial transactions do 
not constrain the transfer pricing analysis. Each situation must be examined 
on  its  own  merits,  and  subject  to  the  prefatory  language  in  the  previous 
paragraph, accurate delineation of the actual transaction under Chapter I will 
precede any pricing attempt.

In accurately delineating an advance of funds, the following economically 
10.12. 
relevant  characteristics  may  be  useful  indicators,  depending  on  the  facts 
and circumstances: the presence or absence of a fixed repayment date; the 
obligation  to  pay  interest;  the  right  to  enforce  payment  of  principal  and 
interest; the status of the funder in comparison to regular corporate creditors; 
the  existence  of  financial  covenants  and  security;  the  source  of  interest 
payments;  the  ability  of  the  recipient  of  the  funds  to  obtain  loans  from 
unrelated  lending  institutions;  the  extent  to  which  the  advance  is  used  to 
acquire capital assets; and the failure of the purported debtor to repay on the 
due date or to seek a postponement.

10.13.  For example, consider a situation in which Company B, a member of 
an MNE group, needs additional funding for its business activities. In this 
scenario, Company B receives an advance of funds from related Company C, 
which is denominated as a loan with a term of 10 years. Assume that, in light 
of all good-faith financial projections of Company B for the next 10 years, it 
is clear that Company B would be unable to service a loan of such an amount. 
Based  on  facts  and  circumstances,  it  can  be  