

10.43.  Other examples of activities which the treasury may have responsibility 
for include raising debt (through bond issuances, bank loans or otherwise) 
and  raising  equity,  and  managing  the  relationship  with  the  MNE  group’s 
external bankers and with independent credit rating agencies.

10.44.  When  evaluating  the  transfer  pricing  issues  related  to  treasury 
activities, as with any case, it is important to accurately delineate the actual 
transactions and determine exactly what functions an entity is carrying on 
rather than to rely to any extent upon a general description such as “treasury 
activities”.

10.45.  Generally,  the  treasury  function  is  part  of  the  process  of  making 
the financing of the commercial business of the MNE group as efficient as 
possible. As such, the treasury function will usually be a support service to 
the main value-creating operation as in the case, for example, of the services 
provided by a cash pool leader (see Section C.2.3). Depending on the facts 
and circumstances of each case, such activities may be services in which case 
the pricing guidance on intra-group services at Chapter VII applies.

10.46.  Similarly, the treasury may act as the contact point to centralise the 
external borrowing of the MNE group. External funds would then be made 
available within the MNE group through intra-group lending provided by the 
treasury. On prevailing facts and circumstances, guidance in paragraph 1.188 
of  Chapter  I  would  apply  to  these  situations  and  the  treasury  would  be 
expected to receive an arm’s length fee for its coordination activities.

In other situations, the treasury may be found to perform more complex 

10.47. 
functions and, therefore, it should be compensated accordingly.

10.48.  Another key concern regarding treasury activities is the identification 
and  allocation  of  the  economically  significant  risks  in  accordance  with 
Chapter I.

10.49.  The activities of the treasury function take into account issues at a 
group level and follow the vision, strategy and policies set out by MNE group 
management. Accordingly, the approach of the treasury to risk will depend 
on the MNE group’s policy where certain objectives may be specified, such 
as targeted levels of investment return (e.g. the yield must exceed the cost 
of  capital),  reduced  cash  flow  volatility,  or  targeted  balance  sheet  ratios 
(e.g. assets to liabilities). Therefore, it is important to note that usually the 
higher strategic decisions will generally be the result of policy set at group 
level rather than determined by the treasury itself.

10.50.  The  following  sections  outline  the  transfer  pricing  considerations 
which arise from some relevant treasury activities that are often performed 
within MNE groups, i.e. the provision of intra-group loans, cash pooling, and 
hedging activities.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER X: FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS – 413

Caveat

The following sections deal with specific issues related to determining whether 
the  rate  of  interest  provided  for  in  a  loan  contract  is  an  arm’s  length  rate.  The 
analysis included in these sections is based on the assumption that the transactions 
are  respected  as  loans  pursuant  to  an  accurate  delineation  under  Chapter  I  or 
domestic legislation, as the case may be.

C.1. Intra-group loans

C.1.1. General considerations

C.1.1.1. The lender’s and borrower’s perspectives

10.51. 
In  considering  the  commercial  and  financial  relations  between  the 
associated  borrower  and  lender,  and  in  an  analysis  of  the  economically 
relevant characteristics of the transaction, both the lender’s and borrower’s 
perspectives  should  be  taken  into  account,  acknowledging  that  these 
perspectives may not align in every case.

10.52.  As  in  any  other  transfer  pricing  scenarios,  the  guidance  in 
Section  D.1  of  Chapter  I  applies  to  determine  whether  the  lender  and  the 
borrower  assume  risks  related  to  intra-group  loans.  In  particular,  it  is 
important to consider the risks that the funding arrangements carry for the 
party  providing  the  funds,  and  the  risks  related  to  the  acceptance  and  use 
of the funds from the perspective of the recipient. These risks will relate to 
repayment of the amount transferred, compensation expected for the use of 
that amount over time, and compensation for other associated risk factors.

10.53.  The lender’s perspective in the decision of whether to make a loan, 
how  much  to  lend,  and  on  what  terms,  will  involve  evaluation  of  various 
factors relating to the borrower, wider economic factors affecting both the 
borrower and the lender, and other options realistically available to the lender 
for the use of the funds.

10.54.  An independent lender will carry out a thorough credit assessment of 
the potential borrower to enable the lender to id