s, or are willing to pay the same under more beneficial conditions. 
Independent enterprises will generally take into account any economically 
relevant differences between the options realistically available to them (such 
as  differences  in  the  level  of  risk)  when  valuing  those  options.  Therefore, 
identifying  the  economically  relevant  characteristics  of  the  transaction 
is  essential  in  accurately  delineating  the  controlled  transaction  and  in 
revealing the range of characteristics taken into account by the parties to the 
transaction in reaching the conclusion that there is no clearly more attractive 
opportunity realistically available to meet their commercial objectives than 
the transaction adopted. In making such an assessment, it may be necessary 
or useful to assess the transaction in the context of a broader arrangement of 
transactions, since assessment of the options realistically available to third 
parties is not necessarily limited to the single transaction, but may take into 
account a broader arrangement of economically related transactions.

1.39.  The  second  phase  in  which  economically  relevant  characteristics 
or comparability factors are used in a transfer pricing analysis relates to the 
process set out in Chapter III of making comparisons between the controlled 
transactions  and  uncontrolled  transactions  in  order  to  determine  an  arm’s 
length  price  for  the  controlled  transaction.  To  make  such  comparisons, 
taxpayers and tax administrations need first to have identified the economically 
relevant characteristics of the controlled transaction. As set out in Chapter III, 
differences in economically relevant characteristics between the controlled and 
uncontrolled  arrangements  need  to  be  taken  into  account  when  establishing 
whether there is comparability between the situations being compared and what 
adjustments may be necessary to achieve comparability.

1.40.  All  methods  that  apply  the  arm’s  length  principle  can  be  tied  to 
the  concept  that  independent  enterprises  consider  the  options  realistically 
available to them and in comparing one option to another they consider any 
differences between the options that would significantly affect their value. 
For  instance,  before  purchasing  a  product  at  a  given  price,  independent 
enterprises normally would be expected to consider whether they could buy 
an  equivalent  product  on  otherwise  comparable  terms  and  conditions  but 
at a lower price from another party. Therefore, as discussed in Chapter II, 
Part  II,  the  comparable  uncontrolled  price  method  compares  a  controlled 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

42 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

transaction to similar uncontrolled transactions to provide a direct estimate 
of the price the parties would have agreed to had they resorted directly to 
a  market  alternative  to  the  controlled  transaction.  However,  the  method 
becomes a less reliable substitute for arm’s length transactions if not all the 
characteristics of these uncontrolled transactions that significantly affect the 
price  charged  between  independent  enterprises  are  comparable.  Similarly, 
the  resale  price  and  cost  plus  methods  compare  the  gross  profit  margin 
earned in the controlled transaction to gross profit margins earned in similar 
uncontrolled transactions. The comparison provides an estimate of the gross 
profit margin one of the parties could have earned had it performed the same 
functions for independent enterprises and therefore provides an estimate of 
the  payment  that  party  would  have  demanded,  and  the  other  party  would 
have  been  willing  to  pay,  at  arm’s  length  for  performing  those  functions. 
Other methods, as discussed in Chapter II, Part III, are based on comparisons 
of  net  profit  indicators  (such  as  profit  margins)  between  independent  and 
associated  enterprises  as  a  means  to  estimate  the  profits  that  one  or  each 
of  the  associated  enterprises  could  have  earned  had  they  dealt  solely  with 
independent  enterprises,  and  therefore  the  payment  those  enterprises 
would  have  demanded  at  arm’s  length  to  compensate  them  for  using  their 
resources in the controlled transaction. Where there are differences between 
the situations being compared that could materially affect the comparison, 
comparability  adjustments  must  be  made,  where  possible,  to  improve  the 
reliability of the comparison. Therefore, in no event can unadjusted industry 
average returns themselves establish arm’s length prices.

1.41. 
For a discussion of the relevance of these factors for the application 
of  particular  pricing  methods,  see  the  consideration  of  those  methods  in 
Chapter II.

D.1.1. The contractual terms of the transaction

1.42.  A  transaction  is  the  consequence  or  expression  of  the  comme