gated through the performance of the development function itself. 
For example, if the contractual arrangement between the associated enterprises 
is  a  contract  R&D  arrangement  that  is  respected  under  the  requirements  of 
this  section,  remuneration  for  risk  mitigation  functions  performed  through 
the development activity would be incorporated into the arm’s length services 
payment. Neither the intangible risk itself, nor the residual income associated 
with such risk, would be allocated to the service provider. See also Example 1 
in paragraph 1.83.

1.63.  Risk management is not the same as assuming a risk. Risk assumption 
means taking on the upside and downside consequences of the risk with the 
result  that  the  party  assuming  a  risk  will  also  bear  the  financial  and  other 
consequences  if  the  risk  materialises.  A  party  performing  part  of  the  risk 
management  functions  may  not  assume  the  risk  that  is  the  subject  of  its 
management activity, but may be hired to perform risk mitigation functions 
under the direction of the risk-assuming party. For example, the day-to-day 
mitigation  of  product  recall  risk  may  be  outsourced  to  a  party  performing 
monitoring of quality control over a specific manufacturing process according 
to the specifications of the party assuming the risk.

1.64.  Financial capacity to assume risk can be defined as access to funding 
to take on the risk or to lay off the risk, to pay for the risk mitigation functions 
and  to  bear  the  consequences  of  the  risk  if  the  risk  materialises.  Access  to 
funding by the party assuming the risk takes into account the available assets 
and the options realistically available to access additional liquidity, if needed, to 
cover the costs anticipated to arise should the risk materialise. This assessment 
should be made on the basis that the party assuming the risk is operating as 
an  unrelated  party  in  the  same  circumstances  as  the  associated  enterprise, 
as  accurately  delineated  under  the  principles  of  this  section.  For  example, 
exploitation  of  rights  in  an  income-generating  asset  could  open  up  funding 
possibilities for that party. Where a party assuming risk receives intra-group 
funding to meet the funding demands in relation to the risk, the party providing 
the funding may assume financial risk but does not, merely as a consequence 
of providing funding, assume the specific risk that gives rise to the need for 
additional funding. Where the financial capacity to assume a risk is lacking, 
then the allocation of risk requires further consideration under step 5.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 51

1.65.  Control over risk involves the first two elements of risk management 
defined in paragraph 1.61; that is (i) the capability to make decisions to take 
on,  lay  off,  or  decline  a  risk-bearing  opportunity,  together  with  the  actual 
performance of that decision-making function and (ii) the capability to make 
decisions  on  whether  and  how  to  respond  to  the  risks  associated  with  the 
opportunity,  together  with  the  actual  performance  of  that  decision-making 
function. It is not necessary for a party to perform the day-to-day mitigation, as 
described in (iii) in order to have control of the risks. Such day-to-day mitigation 
may be outsourced, as the example in paragraph 1.63 illustrates. However, where 
these day-to-day mitigation activities are outsourced, control of the risk would 
require  capability  to  determine  the  objectives  of  the  outsourced  activities,  to 
decide to hire the provider of the risk mitigation functions, to assess whether the 
objectives are being adequately met, and, where necessary, to decide to adapt or 
terminate the contract with that provider, together with the performance of such 
assessment and decision-making. In accordance with this definition of control, 
a party requires both capability and functional performance as described above 
in order to exercise control over a risk.

1.66.  The capability to perform decision-making functions and the actual 
performance  of  such  decision-making  functions  relating  to  a  specific  risk 
involve  an  understanding  of  the  risk  based  on  a  relevant  analysis  of  the 
information  required  for  assessing  the  foreseeable  downside  and  upside 
risk outcomes of such a decision and the consequences for the business of 
the enterprise. Decision-makers should possess competence and experience 
in the area of the particular risk for which the decision is being made and 
possess  an  understanding  of  the  impact  of  their  decision  on  the  business. 
They should also have access to the relevant information, either by gathering 
this information themselves or by exercising authority to specify and obtain 
the  relevant  information  to  support  the  decision-making  proc