ere Company A is resident, identifies three securities issued in 
Company A’s functional currency by the governments of Country X, Country y 
and  Country  Z  with  a  term  of  one  year.  The  credit  ratings  of  the  issuing 
governments are A for Country X, B for Country y and AA for Country Z. In 
specifying a minimum credit rating for the issuing government to consider the 
issued security as a risk-free investment comparable to the controlled financial 
transaction, the tax administration of Country X may select the security issued 
by Country Z as a reference for the risk-free rate of return since it represents the 
lowest rate of return available at the time of the provision of the funding on all 
outstanding government bonds in the relevant currency with a term of one year.

1.115.  To  approximate  risk-free  rate  of  returns,  highly  rated  government 
issued  securities  are  not  the  only  reference,  and  other  alternatives  may  be 
considered on prevailing facts and circumstances of each case, for instance 
interbank rates, interest rate swap rates or repurchase agreements of highly 
rated government issued securities.

1.116.  The  risk-free  rate  of  return  may  be  relevant,  for  example,  as  a 
component in calculating a risk-adjusted rate of return on an investment or 
as the return allocable to an investor who has provided funding but has not 
assumed any of the risks related to the funding.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE – 69

D.1.2.2.2. Determining a risk-adjusted rate of return

1.117.  As  stated  in  paragraph  6.61,  “where  a  party  providing  funding 
exercises  control  over  the  financial  risk  associated  with  the  provision  of 
funding,  without  the  assumption  of,  including  the  control  over,  any  other 
specific risk, it could generally only expect a risk-adjusted rate of return on 
its funding.” (See paragraphs 1.85 and 1.103).

1.118.  Therefore,  in  determining  the  risk-adjusted  rate,  it  is  important  to 
identify and differentiate the financial risk which is assumed by the funder in 
carrying on its financing activity, and the operational risk that is assumed by 
the funded party and is connected to the use of the funds, e.g. for developing 
an intangible asset. Guidance on the relationship between risk assumption in 
relation to the provision of funding and the operational activities for which 
the funds are used is given in paragraphs 6.60-6.64.

1.119.  For instance, consider a situation where Company F advances a loan 
to an associated enterprise, Company D, which undertakes the development 
of an intangible. Consider further that, under the guidance in this chapter, 
it is determined that Company F controls and consequently is allocated the 
financial  risk  associated  with  funding  the  development  of  the  intangible, 
including the potential risk of Company D failing to develop the intangible 
and  therefore  being  unable  to  repay  the  loan.  However,  Company  F  does 
not assume the risk of developing the intangible, which is entirely assumed 
by  Company  D  under  the  accurate  delineation  of  the  actual  transaction. 
Accordingly, in the event that the ex post results derived from the exploitation 
of the developed intangible were higher (or lower) than the results calculated 
on an ex ante basis, Company F would not be entitled to that difference but to 
a risk-adjusted rate of return as described in this section.

1.120.  In  general,  the  expected  risk-adjusted  rate  of  return  on  a  funding 
transaction can be considered to have two components, i.e. the risk-free rate 
and a premium reflecting the risks assumed by the funder.

1.121.  When the funder is assuming the financial risk under the guidance in 
this chapter and is therefore exposed to the potential playing out of that risk, 
it will encounter the upside and downside consequences of that risk outcome. 
Therefore, the assumption of that risk will warrant an expected remuneration 
higher than a risk-free rate of return.

1.122.  A  risk-adjusted  rate  of  return  can  be  determined  under  different 
approaches,  for  example,  based  on  the  return  of  a  realistic  alternative 
investment  with  comparable  economic  characteristics  or  the  cost  of  funds 
(see Section C.1.2 in Chapter X).

1.123. 
It may be possible to find a reasonable indicator of a risk-adjusted 
rate of return from comparable uncontrolled transactions or by considering 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

70 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

realistically  available  alternative  investments  reflecting  the  same  risk 
profile. Depending on the facts and circumstances, realistic alternatives to 
an intra-group loan could be bond issuances or loans which are uncontrolled 
transactions (see paragraph 10.93).

1.124.  Another  approach  to  determining  the  risk-adjusted  rate  of  return 
would  be 