  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  APA  and  that  critical  assumptions 
remain  relevant.  Second,  the  tax  administration  may  continue  to  examine 
the taxpayer as part of the regular audit cycle but without re-evaluating the 
methodology. Instead, the tax administration may limit the examination of 
the transfer pricing to verifying the initial data relevant to the APA proposal 
and determining whether or not the taxpayer has complied with the terms and 
conditions of the APA. With regard to transfer pricing, a tax administration 
may  also  examine  the  reliability  and  accuracy  of  the  representations  in 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 217

the  APA  and  annual  reports  and  the  accuracy  and  consistency  of  how  the 
particular methodology has been applied. All other issues not associated with 
the APA fall under regular audit jurisdiction.

4.149.  An APA should be subject to cancellation, even retroactively, in the 
case of fraud or misrepresentation of information during an APA negotiation, 
or when a taxpayer fails to comply with the terms and conditions of an APA. 
Where an APA is proposed to be cancelled or revoked, the tax administration 
proposing  the  action  should  notify  the  other  tax  administrations  of  its 
intention and of the reasons for such action.

F.2.  Possible approaches for legal and administrative rules governing 

advance pricing arrangements

4.150.  APAs  involving  the  competent  authority  of  a  treaty  partner 
should  be  considered  within  the  scope  of  the  mutual  agreement  procedure 
under  Article  25  of  the  OECD  Model  Tax  Convention,  even  though  such 
arrangements are not expressly mentioned there. Paragraph 3 of that Article 
provides that the competent authorities shall endeavour to resolve by mutual 
agreement  any  difficulties  or  doubts  arising  as  to  the  interpretation  or 
application  of  the  Convention.  Although  paragraph  50  of  the  Commentary 
indicates that the matters covered by this paragraph are difficulties of a general 
nature  concerning  a  category  of  taxpayers,  it  specifically  acknowledges 
that the issues may arise in connection with an individual case. In a number 
of  cases,  APAs  arise  from  cases  where  the  application  of  transfer  pricing 
to  a  particular  category  of  taxpayer  gives  rise  to  doubts  and  difficulties. 
Paragraph  3  of  Article  25  also  indicates  that  the  competent  authorities  may 
consult together for the elimination of double taxation in cases not provided 
for in the Convention. Bilateral APAs should fall within this provision because 
they  have  as  one  of  their  objectives  the  avoidance  of  double  taxation.  Even 
though the Convention provides for transfer pricing adjustments, it specifies 
no particular methodologies or procedures other than the arm’s length principle 
as set out in Article 9. Thus, it could be considered that APAs are authorised 
by paragraph 3 of Article 25 because the specific transfer pricing cases subject 
to an APA are not otherwise provided for in the Convention. The exchange of 
information provision in Article 26 also could facilitate APAs, as it provides 
for  co-operation  between  competent  authorities  in  the  form  of  exchanges  of 
information.

4.151.  Tax  administrations  might  additionally  rely  on  general  domestic 
authority to administer taxes as the authority for entering into APAs. In some 
jurisdictions tax administrations may be able to issue specific administrative 
or procedural guidelines to taxpayers describing the appropriate tax treatment 
of  transactions  and  the  appropriate  pricing  methodology.  As  mentioned 
above,  the  tax  codes  of  some  OECD  member  countries  include  provisions 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

218 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

that allow taxpayers to obtain specific rulings for different purposes. Even 
though these rulings were not designed specifically to cover APAs, they may 
be broad enough to be used to include APAs.

4.152.  Some  jurisdictions  lack  the  basis  in  their  domestic  law  to  enter 
into  APAs.  However,  when  a  tax  convention  contains  a  clause  regarding 
the mutual agreement procedure similar to Article 25 of the OECD Model 
Tax  Convention,  the  competent  authorities  generally  should  be  allowed  to 
conclude an APA, if transfer pricing issues were otherwise likely to result in 
double taxation, or would raise difficulties or doubts as to the interpretation 
or  application  of  the  Convention.  Such  an  arrangement  would  be  legally 
binding for both States and would create rights for the taxpayers involved. 
Inasmuch as double tax treaties take precedence over domestic law, the lack 
of a basis in domestic law to enter into APAs would not prevent application 
of APAs on the basis of a mutual agreement procedure.

F.3. 