tructural advantage or disadvantage exists, what the nature and source 
of the synergistic benefit or burden may be, and whether the synergistic benefit 
or  burden  arises  through  deliberate  concerted  group  actions  can  only  be 
determined through a thorough functional and comparability analysis.3

1.180.  For example, if a group takes affirmative steps to centralise purchasing 
in  a  single  group  company  to  take  advantage  of  volume  discounts,  and  that 
group  company  resells  the  items  it  purchases  to  other  group  members,  a 
deliberate concerted group action occurs to take advantage of group purchasing 
power.  Similarly,  if  a  central  purchasing  manager  at  the  parent  company  or 
regional management centre performs a service by negotiating a group wide 
discount with a supplier on the condition of achieving minimum group wide 
purchasing  levels,  and  group  members  then  purchase  from  that  supplier 
and  obtain  the  discount,  deliberate  concerted  group  action  has  occurred 
notwithstanding the absence of specific purchase and sale transactions among 
group members. Where a supplier unilaterally offers one member of a group a 
favourable price in the hope of attracting business from other group members, 
however, no deliberate concerted group action would have occurred.

1.181.  Where corporate synergies arising from deliberate concerted group 
actions do provide a member of an MNE group with material advantages or 
burdens  not  typical  of  comparable  independent  companies,  it  is  necessary 
to determine (i) the nature of the advantage or disadvantage, (ii) the amount 
of the benefit or detriment provided, and (iii) how that benefit or detriment 
should be divided among members of the MNE group.

1.182. 
If important group synergies exist and can be attributed to deliberate 
concerted  group  actions,  the  benefits  of  such  synergies  should  generally  be 
shared  by  members  of  the  group  in  proportion  to  their  contribution  to  the 
creation of the synergy. For example, where members of the group take deliberate 
concerted  actions  to  consolidate  purchasing  activities  to  take  advantage  of 
economies of scale resulting from high volume purchasing, the benefits of those 
large scale purchasing synergies, if any exist after an appropriate reward to the 
party co-ordinating the purchasing activities, should typically be shared by the 
members of the group in proportion to their purchase volumes.

1.183.  Comparability adjustments may be warranted to account for group 
synergies.

3. 

In  light  of  differences  in  local  law,  some  jurisdictions  consider  a  deliberate 
concerted action to always constitute a transaction, while others do not. However, 
the consensus view is that, in either scenario, a deliberate concerted action involves 
one  associated  enterprise  performing  functions,  using  assets,  or  assuming  risks 
for the benefit of one or more other associated enterprises, such that arm’s length 
compensation is required. See, e.g. Example 5 in paragraphs 1.190-1.193.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

88 – CHAPTER I: THE ARM’S LENGTH PRINCIPLE

Example 1

1.184.  P is the parent company of an MNE group engaging in a financial 
services  business.  The  strength  of  the  group’s  consolidated  balance  sheet 
makes  it  possible  for  P  to  maintain  an  AAA  credit  rating  on  a  consistent 
basis. S is a member of the MNE group engaged in providing the same type 
of financial services as other group members and does so on a large scale 
in  an  important  market.  On  a  stand-alone  basis,  however,  the  strength  of 
S’s  balance  sheet  would  support  a  credit  rating  of  only  Baa.  Nevertheless, 
because  of  S’s  membership  in  the  P  group,  large  independent  lenders  are 
willing  to  lend  to  it  at  interest  rates  that  would  be  charged  to  independent 
borrowers with an A rating, i.e. a lower interest rate than would be charged if 
S were an independent entity with its same balance sheet, but a higher interest 
rate than would be available to the parent company of the MNE group.

1.185.  Assume that S borrows EUR 50 million from an independent lender 
at the market rate of interest for borrowers with an A credit rating. Assume 
further  that  S  simultaneously  borrows  EUR  50  million  from  T,  another 
subsidiary  of  P,  with  similar  characteristics  as  the  independent  lender,  on 
the same terms and conditions and at the same interest rate charged by the 
independent lender (i.e. an interest rate premised on the existence of an A 
credit rating). Assume further that the independent lender, in setting its terms 
and conditions, was aware of S’s other borrowings including the simultaneous 
loan to S from T.

1.186.  Under these circumstances the interest rate charged on the loan by T 
to S is an arm’s length interest rate because (i) it is the same rate charged to S 
