ansactions  that 
are economically inter-related. It will generally be appropriate to look at the 
commercial  rationality  of  a  restructuring  as  a  whole.  For  instance,  where 
examining  a  sale  of  an  intangible  that  is  part  of  a  broader  restructuring 
involving changes to the arrangements relating to the development and use of 
the intangible, then the commercial rationality of the intangible sale should 
not  be  examined  in  isolation  of  these  changes.  On  the  other  hand,  where 
a  restructuring  involves  changes  to  more  than  one  element  or  aspect  of  a 
business that are not economically inter-related, the commercial rationality 
of particular changes may need to be separately considered. For example, a 
restructuring  may  involve  centralising  a  group’s  purchasing  function  and 
centralising the ownership of valuable intangible property unrelated to the 
purchasing function. In such a case, the commercial rationality of centralising 
the  purchasing  function  and  of  centralising  the  ownership  of  valuable 
intangible property may need to be evaluated separately from one another.

9.37.  There  can  be  group-level  business  reasons  for  an  MNE  group 
to  restructure.  However,  it  is  worth  re-emphasising  that  the  arm’s  length 
principle  treats  the  members  of  an  MNE  group  as  separate  entities  rather 
than  as  inseparable  parts  of  a  single  unified  business  (see  paragraph  1.6). 
As  a  consequence,  it  is  not  sufficient  from  a  transfer  pricing  perspective 
that a restructuring arrangement makes commercial sense for the group as a 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 371

whole: the arrangement must be arm’s length at the level of each individual 
taxpayer, taking account of its rights and other assets, expected benefits from 
the arrangement (i.e. any consideration of the post-restructuring arrangement 
plus,  if  applicable,  any  compensation  payments  for  the  restructuring 
itself),  and  realistically  available  options.  Where  a  restructuring  makes 
commercial sense for the group as a whole on a pre-tax basis, it is expected 
that  an  appropriate  transfer  price  (that  is,  any  compensation  for  the  post-
restructuring arrangement plus, if applicable, any compensation payments for 
the restructuring itself) would generally be available to provide arm’s length 
compensation  for  each  accurately  delineated  transaction  comprising  the 
business restructuring for each individual group member participating in it.

9.38.  Under Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax Convention, the fact that a 
business restructuring arrangement is motivated by a purpose of obtaining 
tax  benefits  does  not  of  itself  warrant  a  conclusion  that  it  is  a  non-arm’s 
length  arrangement.2  The  presence  of  a  tax  motive  or  purpose  does  not  of 
itself  justify  non-recognition  of  the  parties’  characterisation  or  structuring 
of the arrangement. However, tax benefits at a group level do not determine 
whether the arm’s length principle is satisfied at the entity level for a taxpayer 
affected by the restructuring (see previous paragraph). Moreover, as indicated 
in paragraph 1.142, the fact that a MNE group as a whole is left worse off 
on a pre-tax basis may be a relevant pointer in determining the commercial 
rationality of the restructuring.

D. Reallocation of profit potential as a result of a business restructuring

D.1. Profit potential

9.39.  An independent enterprise does not necessarily receive compensation 
when a change in its business arrangements results in a reduction in its profit 
potential or expected future profits. The arm’s length principle does not require 
compensation  for  a  mere  decrease  in  the  expectation  of  an  entity’s  future 
profits. When applying the arm’s length principle to business restructurings, 
the question is whether there is a transfer of something of value (an asset or 
an ongoing concern) or a termination or substantial renegotiation of existing 
arrangements and that transfer, termination or substantial renegotiation would 
be  compensated  between  independent  parties  in  comparable  circumstances. 
These two situations are discussed in Sections E and F below.

9.40. 
In these Guidelines, “profit potential” means “expected future profits”. 
In  some  cases  it  may  encompass  losses.  The  notion  of  “profit  potential”  is 
often  used  for  valuation  purposes,  in  the  determination  of  an  arm’s  length 

2. 

As indicated in paragraph 9.8, domestic anti-abuse rules are not within the scope 
of this chapter.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

372 – CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS

compensation  for  a  transfer  of  intangibles  or  of  an  ongoing  concern,  or  in 
the  determination  of  an  arm’s  length  indemnification  for  the  termination  or 
substantial renegotiation of e