ngth basis originally. As noted above, the 
Report  on  BEPS  Action  14  includes  as  best  practice  10  a  recommendation 
that  jurisdictions’  published  mutual  agreement  procedure  guidance  should 
provide  guidance  on  the  consideration  of  interest  in  the  mutual  agreement 
procedure.  In  addition,  the  country  mutual  agreement  procedure  profiles 
prepared  pursuant  to  element  2.2  of  the  Action  14  minimum  standard 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 195

include information on how interest and penalties are dealt with by specific 
jurisdictions in the context of the mutual agreement procedure.
4.67. 
The amount of interest (as distinct from the rate at which it is applied) 
may  also  have  more  to  do  with  the  year  to  which  the  jurisdiction  making 
the  corresponding  adjustment  attributes  the  corresponding  adjustment.  The 
jurisdiction  making  the  corresponding  adjustment  may  decide  to  make  the 
adjustment for the year in which the primary adjustment is determined, in which 
case  relatively  little  interest  is  likely  to  be  payable  (regardless  of  the  rate  of 
interest), whereas the jurisdiction making the primary adjustment may seek to 
impose interest on the understated and uncollected tax liability from the year in 
which the controlled transactions took place (notwithstanding that a relatively low 
rate of interest may be imposed). The issue of the year to which a corresponding 
adjustment  is  attributed  is  raised  in  paragraph  4.36.  It  may  be  appropriate  in 
certain cases for both competent authorities to agree not to assess or pay interest 
in connection with the adjustment at issue, but this may not be possible in the 
absence  of  a  specific  provision  addressing  this  issue  in  the  relevant  bilateral 
treaty. This approach would also reduce administrative complexities. However, as 
the interest on the deficiency and the interest on the overpayment are attributable 
to  different  taxpayers  in  different  jurisdictions,  there  would  be  no  assurance 
under such an approach that a proper economic result would be achieved.

C.5.  Secondary adjustments
4.68.  Corresponding adjustments are not the only adjustments that may be 
triggered by a primary transfer pricing adjustment. Primary transfer pricing 
adjustments  and  their  corresponding  adjustments  change  the  allocation  of 
taxable profits of an MNE group for tax purposes but they do not alter the 
fact that the excess profits represented by the adjustment are not consistent 
with the result that would have arisen if the controlled transactions had been 
undertaken on an arm’s length basis. To make the actual allocation of profits 
consistent with the primary transfer pricing adjustment, some jurisdictions 
having proposed a transfer pricing adjustment will assert under their domestic 
legislation a constructive transaction (a secondary transaction), whereby the 
excess  profits  resulting  from  a  primary  adjustment  are  treated  as  having 
been  transferred  in  some  other  form  and  taxed  accordingly.  Ordinarily, 
the  secondary  transactions  will  take  the  form  of  constructive  dividends, 
constructive  equity  contributions,  or  constructive  loans.  For  example,  a 
jurisdiction making a primary adjustment to the income of a subsidiary of a 
foreign parent may treat the excess profits in the hands of the foreign parent 
as having been transferred as a dividend, in which case withholding tax may 
apply.  It  may  be  that  the  subsidiary  paid  an  excessive  transfer  price  to  the 
foreign parent as a means of avoiding that withholding tax. Thus, secondary 
adjustments attempt to account for the difference between the re-determined 
taxable profits and the originally booked profits. The subjecting to tax of a 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

196 – CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES

secondary transaction gives rise to a secondary transfer pricing adjustment 
(a secondary adjustment). Thus, secondary adjustments may serve to prevent 
tax avoidance. The exact form that a secondary transaction takes and of the 
consequent secondary adjustment will depend on the facts of the case and on 
the tax laws of the jurisdiction that asserts the secondary adjustment.
4.69.  Another example of a tax administration seeking to assert a secondary 
transaction may be where the tax administration making a primary adjustment 
treats  the  excess  profits  as  being  a  constructive  loan  from  one  associated 
enterprise  to  the  other  associated  enterprise.  In  this  case,  an  obligation  to 
repay  the  loan  would  be  deemed  to  arise.  The  tax  administration  making 
the  primary  adjustment  may  then  seek  to  apply  the  arm’s  length  principle 
to this secondary transaction to impute an arm’s length rate of interest. The 
interest rate to be applied, the timing to