ransactions  applying  the  principles  of  this 
memorandum of understanding;

•  A  statement  that  the  Qualifying  Enterprise  will  respond  within 
60  days  to  any  request  of  the  tax  authority  of  its  jurisdiction  of 
residence  for  information  deemed  necessary  by  such  tax  authority 
to  verify  qualification  of  the  enterprise  for  treatment  under  this 
memorandum of understanding.

Satisfaction  of  the  election  and  reporting  requirements  of  this 
44. 
memorandum of understanding, and reporting income calculated in accordance 
with  its  terms  in  a  timely  filed  tax  return  for  the  year,  shall  relieve  the 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER IV: SAMPLE MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING FOR SAFE HARBOURS – 513

Qualifying Enterprise and its relevant associated enterprise from the obligation 
to  comply  with  the  otherwise  applicable  transfer  pricing  documentation 
requirements  of  [State  A]  and  [State  B]  with  respect  to  the  Qualifying 
Transactions.

45. 
A  Qualifying  Enterprise  and  its  relevant  associated  enterprise  not 
electing treatment of their Qualifying Transactions under this memorandum 
of  understanding  shall  be  subject  to  the  application  of  the  transfer  pricing 
and documentation rules of [State A] and [State B] as if this memorandum of 
understanding were not in force.

All disputes with regard to the application of this memorandum of 
46. 
understanding shall be referred to the competent authorities of [State A] and 
[State B] for resolution by mutual agreement.

47. 
The competent authorities of [State A] and [State B] may exchange 
information where necessary to carry out this agreement under the provisions 
of Article [26] of the Treaty.

Termination of the Agreement

48. 
Either  [State  A]  or  [State  B]  may  terminate  this  memorandum  of 
understanding at any time upon written notice to the competent authority of 
the other Contracting State and publication of such notice. Such termination 
will have effect for taxable years of Qualifying Enterprises beginning after 
the last day of the calendar year in which delivery and publication of such 
notice of termination occurs.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS – 515

Annex II to Chapter IV 

Guidelines for conducting Advance Pricing Arrangements 
under the Mutual Agreement Procedure (MAP APAs)

A. Background

A.1. Introduction
1. 
Advance Pricing Arrangements (“APAs”) are the subject of extensive 
discussion in the Transfer Pricing Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises 
and  Tax  Administrations  at  Chapter  IV,  Section  F.  The  development  of 
working  arrangements  between  competent  authorities  is  considered  in 
paragraph 4.175:

Between  those  jurisdictions  that  use  APAs,  greater  uniformity  in 
APA  practices  could  be  beneficial  to  both  tax  administrations  and 
taxpayers. Accordingly, the tax administrations of such jurisdictions 
may  wish  to  consider  working  agreements  with  the  competent 
authorities  for  the  undertaking  of  APAs.  These  agreements  may 
set forth general guidelines and understandings for the reaching of 
mutual agreement in cases where a taxpayer has requested an APA 
involving transfer pricing issues.
It  should  be  noted  that  the  use  of  the  term  “agreement”  in  the  above 
quotation is not intended to give any status to such procedural arrangements 
above  that  provided  for  by  the  Mutual  Agreement  Article  of  the  OECD 
Model Tax Convention. Additionally, the Committee on Fiscal Affairs stated 
in paragraph 4.171 of the Guidelines that it intended “to monitor carefully 
any expanded use of APAs and to promote greater  consistency  in practice 
amongst those countries that choose to use them.”
2. 
This annex follows up on the above recommendations. The objective 
is to improve the consistency of application of APAs by providing guidance 
to  tax  administrations  on  how  to  conduct  mutual  agreement  procedures 
involving  APAs.  Although  the  focus  of  the  annex  is  on  the  role  of  tax 
administrations, the opportunity is taken to discuss how best the taxpayer can 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
516 – ANNEX II TO CHAPTER IV: ADVANCE PRICING ARRANGEMENTS

contribute to the process. This guidance is intended for use by those countries 
– both OECD members and non-members – that wish to use APAs.

A.2. Definition of an APA

3. 
Many jurisdictions have had, for some time, procedures (e.g. rulings) 
enabling the taxpayer to obtain some degree of certainty regarding how the 
law will be applied in a given set of circumstances. The legal consequences 
of  the  proposed  action  are  determined  in  advance,  based  on  assumptions 
about the factual basis. The validity of this determination is dependent upon 
the assumptions being supported by the facts when the actual t