pared to provide documentation regarding how its transfer 
prices were established. For a discussion of documentation, see Chapter V.

2.10.  The  application  of  a  general  rule  of  thumb  does  not  provide  an 
adequate  substitute  for  a  complete  functional  and  comparability  analysis 
conducted under the principles of Chapters I-III. Accordingly, a rule of thumb 
cannot  be  used  to  evidence  that  a  price  or  an  apportionment  of  income  is 
arm’s length.

2.11. 
It  is  not  possible  to  provide  specific  rules  that  will  cover  every 
case.  Tax  administrators  should  hesitate  from  making  minor  or  marginal 
adjustments.  In  general,  the  parties  should  attempt  to  reach  a  reasonable 
accommodation  keeping  in  mind  the  imprecision  of  the  various  methods 
and the preference for higher degrees of comparability and a more direct and 
closer  relationship  to  the  transaction.  It  should  not  be  the  case  that  useful 
information,  such  as  might  be  drawn  from  uncontrolled  transactions  that 
are not identical to the controlled transactions, should be dismissed simply 
because  some  rigid  standard  of  comparability  is  not  fully  met.  Similarly, 
evidence from enterprises engaged in controlled transactions with associated 
enterprises may be useful in understanding the transaction under review or 
as a pointer to further investigation. Further, any method should be permitted 
where its application is agreeable to the members of the MNE group involved 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

96 – CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS

with  the  transaction  or  transactions  to  which  the  methodology  applies  and 
also to the tax administrations in the jurisdictions of all those members.

B. Use of more than one method

2.12.  The arm’s length principle does not require the application of more 
than  one  method  for  a  given  transaction  (or  set  of  transactions  that  are 
appropriately aggregated following the standard described in paragraph 3.9), 
and  in  fact  undue  reliance  on  such  an  approach  could  create  a  significant 
burden  for  taxpayers.  Thus,  these  Guidelines  do  not  require  either  the  tax 
examiner  or  taxpayer  to  perform  analyses  under  more  than  one  method. 
While in some cases the selection of a method may not be straightforward 
and more than one method may be initially considered, generally it will be 
possible to select one method that is apt to provide the best estimation of an 
arm’s  length  price.  However,  for  difficult  cases,  where  no  one  approach  is 
conclusive, a flexible approach would allow the evidence of various methods 
to be used in conjunction. In such cases, an attempt should be made to reach a 
conclusion consistent with the arm’s length principle that is satisfactory from 
a practical viewpoint to all the parties involved, taking into account the facts 
and circumstances of the case, the mix of evidence available, and the relative 
reliability of the various methods under consideration. See paragraphs 3.58-
3.59 for a discussion of cases where a range of figures results from the use of 
more than one method.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER II: TRANSFER PRICING METHODS – 97

Part II: Traditional transaction methods

A. Introduction

2.13.  This  part  provides  a  detailed  description  of  traditional  transaction 
methods that are used to apply the arm’s length principle. These methods are 
the comparable uncontrolled price method or CUP method, the resale price 
method, and the cost plus method.

B. Comparable uncontrolled price method

B.1.  In general

2.14.  The  CUP  method  compares  the  price  charged  for  property  or 
services  transferred  in  a  controlled  transaction  to  the  price  charged  for 
property  or  services  transferred  in  a  comparable  uncontrolled  transaction 
in  comparable  circumstances.  If  there  is  any  difference  between  the  two 
prices, this may indicate that the conditions of the commercial and financial 
relations of the associated enterprises are not arm’s length, and that the price 
in the uncontrolled transaction may need to be substituted for the price in the 
controlled transaction.

2.15. 
Following the principles in Chapter I, an uncontrolled transaction is 
comparable to a controlled transaction (i.e. it is a comparable uncontrolled 
transaction) for purposes of the CUP method if one of two conditions is met: 
a) none of the differences (if any) between the transactions being compared 
or between the enterprises undertaking those transactions could materially 
affect the price in the open market; or, b) reasonably accurate adjustments 
can be made to eliminate the material effects of such differences. Where it 
is possible to locate comparable uncontrolled transactions, the CUP method 
is  the  most  direct  and  reliable  way  to  apply  the  arm’s  length  principle. 
Consequentl