nning after 1 January 2016. 
It follows from this recommendation that the jurisdictions participating in the 
OECD/G20 BEPS Project agree that they will not require filing of a Country-
by-Country Report based on the new template for MNE fiscal years beginning 
prior  to  1  January  2016.  The  MNE  fiscal  year  relates  to  the  consolidated 
reporting period for financial statement purposes and not to taxable years or 
to the financial reporting periods of individual subsidiaries.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

240 – CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION

E.2.2.  Which MNE groups should be required to file the Country-by-

Country Report?

It  is  recommended  that  all  MNE  groups  be  required  to  file  the 

5.51. 
Country-by-Country Report each year except as follows.

5.52.  There  would  be  an  exemption  from  the  general  filing  requirement 
for MNE groups with annual consolidated group revenue in the immediately 
preceding  fiscal  year  of  less  than  EUR  750  million  or  a  near  equivalent 
amount  in  domestic  currency  as  of  January  2015.  Thus,  for  example,  if 
an  MNE  that  keeps  its  financial  accounts  on  a  calendar  year  basis  has 
EUR 625 million in consolidated group revenue for its 2015 calendar year, 
it  would  not  be  required  to  file  the  Country-by-Country  Report  in  any 
jurisdiction with respect to its fiscal year ending 31 December 2016.

5.53. 
It  is  believed  that  the  exemption  described  in  paragraph  52,  which 
provides a threshold of EUR 750 million, will exclude approximately 85 to 
90% of MNE groups from the requirement to file the Country-by-Country 
Report,  but  that  the  Country-by-Country  Report  will  nevertheless  be  filed 
by MNE groups controlling approximately 90% of corporate revenues. The 
prescribed exemption threshold therefore represents an appropriate balancing 
of reporting burden and benefit to tax administrations.

5.54. 
It is the intention of the jurisdictions participating in the OECD/G20 
BEPS  Project  to  reconsider  the  appropriateness  of  the  applicable  revenue 
threshold described in the preceding paragraph in connection with their 2020 
review of implementation of the new standard, including whether additional 
or different data should be reported.

5.55. 
It  is  considered  that  no  exemptions  from  filing  the  Country-by-
Country  Report  should  be  adopted  apart  from  the  exemptions  outlined 
in  this  section.  In  particular,  no  special  industry  exemptions  should  be 
provided,  no  general  exemption  for  investment  funds  should  be  provided, 
and no exemption for non-corporate entities or non-public corporate entities 
should  be  provided.  Notwithstanding  this  conclusion,  MNE  groups  with 
income derived from international transportation or transportation in inland 
waterways  that  is  covered  by  treaty  provisions  that  are  specific  to  such 
income  and  under  which  the  taxing  rights  on  such  income  are  allocated 
exclusively  to  one  jurisdiction,  should  include  the  information  required  by 
the Country-by-Country Report template with respect to such income only 
against the name of the jurisdiction to which the relevant treaty provisions 
allocate these taxing rights.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER V: DOCUMENTATION – 241

E.2.3.  Necessary conditions underpinning the obtaining and the use 

of the Country-by-Country Report

5.56.  The following conditions underpin the obtaining and the use of the 
Country-by-Country Report.

Confidentiality
5.57. 
Jurisdictions  should  have  in  place  and  enforce  legal  protections 
of  the  confidentiality  of  the  reported  information.  Such  protections  would 
preserve the confidentiality of the Country-by-Country Report to an extent 
at  least  equivalent  to  the  protections  that  would  apply  if  such  information 
were  delivered  to  the  jurisdiction  under  the  provisions  of  the  Multilateral 
Convention  on  Mutual  Administrative  Assistance  in  Tax  Matters,  a  Tax 
Information  Exchange  Agreement  (TIEA)  or  a  tax  treaty  that  meets  the 
internationally agreed standard of information upon request as reviewed by 
the  Global  Forum  on  Transparency  and  Exchange  of  Information  for  Tax 
Purposes. Such protections include limitation of the use of information, rules 
on the persons to whom the information may be disclosed, ordre public, etc.

Consistency
5.58. 
Jurisdictions should use their best efforts to adopt a legal requirement 
that MNE groups’ ultimate parent entities resident in their jurisdiction prepare 
and  file  the  Country-by-Country  Report,  unless  exempted  as  set  out  in 
paragraph  5.52.  Jurisdictions  should  utilise  the  standard  template  contained 
in Annex III of Chapter V of these Guidelines. Stated otherwise, under this 
condition  no  jurisdiction  will  require  that  the  Country-by-Country  Report 
contain ei