vices), including the 
downsizing or closing of operations. The arm’s length principle and guidance 
in this chapter apply in the same way to all types of transactions comprising a 
business restructuring, irrespective of whether they lead to a more centralised 
or less centralised business model.

9.4. 
Some of the reasons reported by business for restructuring include 
the  wish  to  maximise  synergies  and  economies  of  scale,  to  streamline  the 
management  of  business  lines  and  to  improve  the  efficiency  of  the  supply 
chain, taking advantage of the development of web-based technologies that 
has facilitated the emergence of global organisations. Furthermore, business 
restructurings may be needed to preserve profitability or limit losses, e.g. in 
the event of an over-capacity situation or in a downturn economy.

A.2. Issues that are within the scope of this chapter

9.5. 
This  chapter  contains  a  discussion  of  the  transfer  pricing  aspects 
of  business  restructurings,  i.e.  of  the  application  of  Article  9  (Associated 
Enterprises) of the OECD Model Tax Convention and of these Guidelines to 
business restructurings.

9.6. 
Business restructurings are typically accompanied by a reallocation 
of profit potential among the members of the MNE group, either immediately 
after the restructuring or over a few years. One major objective of this chapter 
in relation to Article 9 is to discuss the extent to which such a reallocation 
of  profit  potential  is  consistent  with  the  arm’s  length  principle  and  more 
generally how the arm’s length principle applies to business restructurings. 
The  implementation  of  integrated  business  models  and  the  development 
of  global  organisations  may  complicate  the  application  of  the  arm’s  length 
principle,  which  determines  the  profit  of  members  of  an  MNE  group  by 
reference to the conditions which would have been made between independent 
enterprises in comparable transactions and comparable circumstances. This 
complexity in applying the arm’s length principle in practice is acknowledged 
in  these  Guidelines  (see  paragraphs  1.10-1.11).  Notwithstanding  this  issue, 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 359

these Guidelines reflect the OECD Member countries’ strong support for the 
arm’s length principle and for efforts to describe its application and refine its 
operation in practice (see paragraphs 1.14-1.15). When discussing the issues 
that arise in the context of business restructurings, the OECD has kept this 
complexity in mind in an attempt to develop approaches that are realistic and 
reasonably pragmatic.

9.7. 
This chapter only covers transactions between associated enterprises 
in the context of Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax Convention and does not 
address  the  attribution  of  profits  within  a  single  enterprise  on  the  basis  of 
Article 7 of the OECD Model Tax Convention, as this is the subject of the 
Report on the Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments.1

9.8. 
Domestic  anti-abuse  rules  and  CFC  legislation  are  not  within  the 
scope of this chapter. The domestic tax treatment of an arm’s length payment, 
including  rules  regarding  the  deductibility  of  such  a  payment  and  how 
domestic capital gains tax provisions may apply to an arm’s length capital 
payment, are also not within the scope of this chapter. Moreover, while they 
raise  important  issues  in  the  context  of  business  restructurings,  VAT  and 
indirect taxes are not covered in this chapter.

B.  Applying Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax Convention and these 
Guidelines to business restructurings: theoretical framework

This chapter starts from the premise that the arm’s length principle 
9.9. 
and these Guidelines do not and should not apply differently to restructurings 
or post-restructuring transactions than to transactions that were structured as 
such from the beginning. The relevant question under Article 9 of the OECD 
Model Tax Convention and the arm’s length principle  is whether  there  are 
conditions made or imposed in a business restructuring that differ from the 
conditions that would be made between independent enterprises. This is the 
theoretical  framework  in  which  all  the  guidance  in  this  chapter  should  be 
read. The guidance in this chapter is composed of two parts: the first part 
provides  guidance  on  the  determination  of  the  arm’s  length  compensation 
for  the  restructuring  itself;  the  second  part  addresses  the  remuneration  of 
post-restructuring controlled transactions. Both parts should be read together, 
and  applied  in  accordance  with  the  guidance  provided  in  the  rest  of  these 
Guidelines, and in particular in Chapter I.

1. 

See Report on the Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments, approved 
by the Committee on Fiscal Affairs on 22-23 June 2010 and by the Co