 Section B.2 of Chapter VI.

7.42.  Another  example  of  intra-group  services  is  the  administration  of 
licences. The administration and enforcement of intangible property rights 
should be distinguished from the exploitation of those rights for this purpose. 
The  protection  of  a  licence  might  be  handled  by  a  group  service  centre 
responsible for monitoring possible licence infringements and for enforcing 
licence rights.

D. Low value-adding intra-group services

7.43.  This  section  provides  specific  guidance  relating  to  a  particular 
category of intra-group services referred to as low value-adding intra-group 
services.  Section  D.1  contains  the  definition  of  low  value-adding  intra-
group  services.  Section  D.2  sets  out  an  elective,  simplified  approach  for 
the determination of arm’s length charges for low value-adding intra-group 
services, including a simplified benefits test. Section D.3 contains guidance 
on  documentation  and  reporting  requirements  that  should  be  met  by  an 
MNE group electing to apply this simplified approach. Finally, Section D.4 
addresses  some  issues  with  regard  to  the  levying  of  withholding  taxes  on 
charges for low value-adding intra-group services. In summary, the simplified 
approach recognises that the arm’s length price for low value-adding intra-
group  services  is  closely  related  to  costs,  allocates  the  costs  of  providing 
each category of such services to those group companies which benefit from 
using those services, and then applies the same mark-up to all categories of 
services. MNE groups not electing to apply the simplified approach set out in 
this section should address transfer pricing issues related to low-value-adding 
services under the provisions of Sections A and B, above.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES – 327

D.1. Definition of low value-adding intra-group services

7.44.  This  section  discusses  the  definitional  issues  related  to  low  value-
adding  intra-group  services  for  applying  the  elective,  simplified  approach 
discussed  under  Section  D.2.  It  starts  by  indicating  the  characteristics  that 
services  must  have  in  order  to  qualify  as  low-value-adding  intra-group 
services  for  applying  the  elective,  simplified  approach.  It  then  identifies  a 
series of activities that do not qualify as low value-adding intra-group services 
for the elective, simplified approach. Finally it contains a list of examples of 
services  that  likely  would  have  the  characteristics  to  qualify  as  low  value-
adding intra-groups services for the application of the simplified approach.

7.45. 
Low  value-adding  intra-group  services  for  the  purposes  of  the 
simplified approach are services performed by one member or more than one 
member of an MNE group on behalf of one or more other group members which

• 

• 

• 

• 

are of a supportive nature,

are not part of the core business of the MNE group (i.e. not creating 
the  profit-earning  activities  or  contributing 
to  economically 
significant activities of the MNE group),

do not require the use of unique and valuable intangibles and do not 
lead to the creation of unique and valuable intangibles, and

do not involve the assumption or control of substantial or significant 
risk by the service provider and do not give rise to the creation of 
significant risk for the service provider.

7.46.  The guidance in this section is not applicable to services that would 
ordinarily  qualify  as  low  value-adding  intra-group  services  where  such 
services  are  rendered  to  unrelated  customers  of  the  members  of  the  MNE 
group.  In  such  cases  it  can  be  expected  that  reliable  internal  comparables 
exist and can be used for determining the arm’s length price for the intra-
group services.

The following activities would not qualify for the simplified approach 

7.47. 
outlined in this section:

• 

• 

services constituting the core business of the MNE group;

research and development services (including software development 
unless  falling  within  the  scope  of  information  technology  services 
in 7.49);

•  manufacturing and production services;

• 

purchasing activities relating to raw materials or other materials that 
are used in the manufacturing or production process;

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

328 – CHAPTER VII: INTRA-GROUP SERVICES

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

sales, marketing and distribution activities;

financial transactions;

extraction, exploration, or processing of natural resources;

insurance and reinsurance;

services  of  corporate  senior  management  (other  than  management 
supervision of services that qualify as low value-adding intra-group 
services under the definition of paragraph 7.45).

7.48.  The fact that an activity does not qualify for the simplified approach, 
as defined under paragraph 7.4