Country Reports, respectively based on the 1) 
Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, 2) bilateral 
tax conventions and 3) Tax Information Exchange Agreements (TIEAs). It is 
recognised  that  developing  countries  may  require  support  for  the  effective 
implementation of Country-by-Country Reporting.

Model legislation

The  model  legislation  contained  in  the  Country-by-Country  Reporting 
Implementation  Package  takes  into  account  neither  the  constitutional  law 
and  legal  system,  nor  the  structure  and  wording  of  the  tax  legislation  of 
any  particular  jurisdiction.  Jurisdictions  will  be  able  to  adapt  this  model 
legislation to their own legal systems, where changes to current legislation 
are required.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

 
560 – ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE

Competent Authority Agreements

The Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters (the 
“Convention’), by virtue of its Article 6, requires the Competent Authorities 
of  the  Parties  to  the  Convention  to  mutually  agree  on  the  scope  of  the 
automatic exchange of information and the procedure to be complied with. 
In  the  context  of  the  Common  Reporting  Standard,  this  requirement  has 
been translated into a Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement, which 
defines the scope, timing, procedures and safeguards according to which the 
automatic exchange should take place.

As  the  implementation  of  the  automatic  exchange  of  information  by 
means of a Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement in the context of the 
Common Reporting Standard has proven both time- and resource-efficient, 
the  same  approach  could  be  used  for  the  purpose  of  putting  the  automatic 
exchange of information in relation to Country-by-Country Reports in place. 
Therefore, the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement on the Exchange 
of  Country-by-Country  Reports  (the  “CbC  MCAA”)  has  been  developed, 
based  on  the  Convention  and  inspired  by  the  Multilateral  Competent 
Authority Agreement concluded in the context of the implementation of the 
Common  Reporting  Standard.  In  addition,  two  further  model  competent 
authority  agreements  have  been  developed  for  exchanges  of  Country-by-
Country Reports, one for exchanges under Double Tax Conventions and one 
for exchanges under Tax Information Exchange Agreements.

In line with paragraph 5 of Chapter V of these Guidelines, one of the three 
objectives of transfer pricing documentation is to provide tax administrations 
with the information necessary to conduct an informed transfer pricing risk 
assessment, while paragraph 10 of Chapter V of these Guidelines states that 
effective risk identification and assessment constitute an essential early stage 
in  the  process  of  selecting  appropriate  cases  for  transfer  pricing  audit.  The 
Country-by-Country Reports exchanged on the basis of the model competent 
authority agreements contained in the present Country-by-Country Reporting 
Implementation Package, represent one of the three tiers of the transfer pricing 
documentation  and  will,  in  accordance  with  paragraphs  16,  17  and  25  of 
Chapter V of these Guidelines, provide tax administrations with relevant and 
reliable information to perform an efficient and robust transfer pricing risk 
assessment analysis. Against that background, the model competent authority 
agreements aim to provide the framework to make the information contained 
in the Country-by-Country Report available to concerned tax authorities, such 
information being foreseeably relevant for the administration and enforcement 
of their tax laws through the automatic exchange of information.

The purpose of the CbC MCAA is to set forth rules and procedures as 
may be necessary for Competent Authorities of jurisdictions implementing 
BEPS  Action  13  to  automatically  exchange  Country-by-Country  Reports 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COUNTRy-By-COUNTRy REPORTING IMPLEMENTATION PACKAGE – 561

prepared by the Reporting Entity of an MNE Group and filed on an annual 
basis with the tax authorities of the jurisdiction of tax residence of that entity 
with the tax authorities of all jurisdictions in which the MNE Group operates.

For most provisions, the wording is substantially the same as the text of 
the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement for the purpose of exchanges 
under  the  Common  Reporting  Standard.  Where  appropriate,  the  wording 
has been complemented or amended to reflect the Guidance on Country-by-
Country Reporting set out in Chapter V of these Guidelines.

An  XML  Schema  and  a  related  User  Guide  has  also  been  developed  to 

accommodate the electronic exchange of Country-by-Country Reports.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX IV TO CHAPTER V: COU