guidance on the determination of the date of the act 
of  taxation.  Paragraph  23  discusses  self-assessment  cases.  Paragraph  24 
clarifies  that  “where  it  is  the  combination  of  decisions  or  actions  taken  in 
both  Contracting  States  resulting  in  taxation  not  in  accordance  with  the 
Convention, the time limit begins to run only from the first notification of the 
most recent decision or action.”

In  order  to  minimise  the  possibility  that  time  limits  may  prevent 
4.54. 
the  mutual  agreement  procedure  from  effectively  ensuring  relief  from 
or  avoidance  of  double  taxation,  taxpayers  should  be  permitted  to  avail 
themselves of the procedure at the earliest possible stage, which is as soon as 
an adjustment appears likely. Early competent authority consultation, before 
any irrevocable steps are taken by either tax administration, may ensure that 
there  are  as  few  procedural  obstacles  as  possible  in  the  way  of  achieving 
a  mutually  acceptable  conclusion  to  the  discussions.  Some  competent 
authorities, however, may not like to be involved at such an early stage because 
a proposed adjustment may not result in final action or may not trigger a claim 
for a corresponding adjustment. Consequently, too early an invocation of the 
mutual agreement process may create unnecessary work.

C.4.3. Duration of mutual agreement proceedings

4.55.  Once  discussions  under  the  mutual  agreement  procedure  have 
commenced,  the  proceedings  may  turn  out  to  be  lengthy.  The  complexity 
of transfer pricing cases may make it difficult for the competent authorities 
to reach a swift resolution. Distance may make it difficult for the competent 
authorities to meet frequently, and correspondence is often an unsatisfactory 
substitute for face-to-face discussions. Difficulties also arise from differences 
in language, procedures, and legal and accounting systems, and these may 
lengthen the duration of the process. The process also may be prolonged if 
the taxpayer delays providing all of the information the competent authorities 
require for a full understanding of the transfer pricing issue or issues.
4.56.  Whilst the time taken to resolve a mutual agreement procedure case 
may vary according to its complexity, most competent authorities endeavour to 
reach bilateral agreement for the resolution of a mutual agreement procedure 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IV: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACHES – 191

case within 24 months. Accordingly, in order to ensure the timely, effective 
and  efficient  resolution  of  treaty-related  disputes,  the  minimum  standard 
that was adopted in the context of the work on Action 14 of the BEPS Action 
Plan includes a commitment to seek to resolve mutual agreement procedure 
cases within an average timeframe of 24 months (element 1.3). Jurisdictions’ 
progress toward meeting that target will be periodically reviewed on the basis 
of the agreed reporting framework for mutual agreement procedure statistics3 
that was developed to provide a tangible measure to evaluate the effects of 
the implementation of the Action 14 minimum standard (see elements 1.5 and 
1.6).  Moreover,  other  elements  of  the  Action  14  minimum  standard  related 
to  the  authority  of  staff  in  charge  of  mutual  agreement  processes  (element 
2.3), performance indicators for competent authority functions (element 2.4) 
and  adequate  competent  authority  resources  (element  2.5)  are  expected  to 
contribute to the timely resolution of mutual agreement procedure cases.
4.57.  More  fundamentally,  the  adoption  in  tax  treaties  of  a  mandatory 
binding arbitration provision similar to paragraph 5 of Article 25 to resolve 
issues that the competent authorities have been unable to resolve within the 
two year period referred to in that provision should considerably reduce the 
risk of lengthy mutual agreement procedures. See paragraphs 4.177-4.179.

C.4.4. Taxpayer participation

4.58.  Paragraph  1  of  Article  25  of  the  OECD  Model  Tax  Convention 
gives taxpayers the right to submit a request to initiate a mutual agreement 
procedure. Although the taxpayer has the right to initiate the procedure, the 
taxpayer has no specific right to participate in the process. It has been argued 
that the taxpayer also should have a right to take part in the mutual agreement 
procedure, including the right at least to present its case to both competent 
authorities, and to be informed of the progress of the discussions. It should be 
noted in this respect that implementation of a mutual agreement in practice 
is subject to the taxpayer’s acceptance. Some taxpayer representatives have 
suggested that the taxpayer also should have a right to be present at face-to-
face discussions between the competent authorities. The purpose would be to 
ensure that there is no misunderstanding by the competent authorities of the 
facts 