  operates  new  department  stores  in  Country  B,  obtaining  profit 
margins substantially higher than those of otherwise comparable retailers in 
Country B.

68. 
A  detailed  functional  analysis  reveals  that  Company  S  uses  in  its 
operations in Country B, the same know-how and unique marketing concept 
as the ones used by Company P in its operations in Country A. Under these 
circumstances, the conduct of the parties reveals that a transaction has taken 
place consisting in the transfer from Company P to Company S of the right 
to  use  the  know-how  and  unique  marketing  concept.  Under  comparable 
circumstances, independent parties would have concluded a license agreement 
granting Company S the right to use in Country B, the know-how and unique 
marketing  concept  developed  by  Company  P.  Accordingly,  one  possible 
remedy  available  to  the  tax  administration  is  a  transfer  pricing  adjustment 
imputing a royalty payment from Company S to Company P for the use of 
these intangibles.

Example 20

Ilcha  is  organised  in  Country  A.  The  Ilcha  group  of  companies 
69. 
has  for  many  years  manufactured  and  sold  Product  Q  in  countries  B  and 
C through a wholly owned subsidiary, Company S1, which is organised in 
Country  B.  Ilcha  owns  patents  related  to  the  design  of  Product  Q  and  has 
developed a unique trademark and other marketing intangibles. The patents 
and trademarks are registered by Ilcha in Countries B and C.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

622 – ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES

70. 
For sound business reasons, Ilcha determines that the group’s business 
in Countries B and C would be enhanced if those businesses were operated 
through  separate  subsidiaries  in  each  country.  Ilcha  therefore  organises  in 
Country  C  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary,  Company  S2.  With  regard  to  the 
business in Country C:

•  Company  S1  transfers  to  Company  S2  the  tangible  manufacturing 
and marketing assets previously used by Company S1 in Country C.

• 

Ilcha  and  Company  S1  agree  to  terminate  the  agreement  granting 
Company S1 the following rights with relation to Product Q: the right 
to manufacture and distribute Product Q in Country C; the right to 
use the patents and trademark in carrying out its manufacturing and 
distribution activities in Country C; and, the right to use customer 
relationships, customer lists, goodwill and other items in Country C 
(hereinafter, “the Rights”).

• 

Ilcha enters into new, long-term licence agreements with Company S2 
granting it the Rights in Country C.

The newly formed subsidiary thereafter conducts the Product Q business 
in  Country  C,  while  Company  S1  continues  to  conduct  the  Product  Q 
business in Country B.

71. 
Assume that over the years of its operation, Company S1 developed 
substantial business value in Country C and an independent enterprise would 
be willing to pay for that business value in an acquisition. Further assume 
that,  for  accounting  and  business  valuation  purposes,  a  portion  of  such 
business value would be treated as goodwill in a purchase price allocation 
conducted with regard to a sale of Company S1’s Country C business to an 
independent party.

72. 
Under the facts and circumstances of the case, there is value being 
transferred  to  Company  S2  through  the  combination  of  (i)  the  transfer  of 
part of Company S1’s tangible business assets to Company S2 in Country C, 
and (ii) the surrendering by Company S1 of the Rights and the subsequent 
granting  of  the  Rights  by  Ilcha  to  Company  S2.  There  are  three  separate 
transactions:

• 

• 

the  transfer  of  part  of  Company  S1’s  tangible  business  assets  to 
Company S2 in Country C;

the surrendering by Company S1 of its rights under the licence back 
to Ilcha; and

• 

the subsequent granting of a licence by Ilcha to Company S2.

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

ANNEX I TO CHAPTER VI: EXAMPLES ON INTANGIBLES – 623

For  transfer  pricing  purposes,  the  prices  paid  by  Ilcha  and  by 
Company S2 in connection with these transactions should reflect the value of 
the business which would include amounts that may be treated as the value of 
goodwill for accounting purposes.

Example 21

73. 
Första  is  a  consumer  goods  company  organised  and  operating  in 
Country  A.  Prior  to  year  1,  Första  produces  Product  y  in  Country  A  and 
sells it through affiliated distribution companies in many countries around 
the world. Product y is well recognised and attracts a premium compared to 
its competitors, to which Första is entitled as the legal owner and developer of 
the trademark and related goodwill giving rise to that premium.

74. 
In year 2, Första organises Company S, a wholly owned subsidiary, 
in Country B. Company S acts as a super distributor and invoicing centre. 
Första continues to ship Product y directly