xisting arrangements, once it is found that such 
compensation or indemnification would have taken place between independent 
parties in comparable circumstances.

In the context of business restructurings, profit potential should not be 
9.41. 
interpreted as simply the profits/losses that would occur if the pre-restructuring 
arrangement were to continue indefinitely. On the one hand, if an entity has no 
discernible rights or other assets at the time of the restructuring, then it has no 
compensable profit potential. On the other hand, an entity with considerable 
rights or other assets at the time of the restructuring may have considerable 
profit potential, which must ultimately be appropriately remunerated in order 
to justify the sacrifice of such profit potential.

9.42. 
In order to determine whether at arm’s length the restructuring itself 
would give rise to a form of compensation, it is essential to understand the 
restructuring,  including  the  changes  that  have  taken  place,  how  they  have 
affected  the  functional  analysis  of  the  parties,  what  the  business  reasons 
for  and  the  anticipated  benefits  from  the  restructuring  were,  and  what 
options would have been realistically available to the parties, as discussed in 
Section B.

D.2. Reallocation of risks and profit potential

9.43.  General guidance on the transfer pricing aspects of risks is found in 
Section D.1.2.1 of Chapter I, and the reallocation of risk following a business 
restructuring should be analysed under the framework set out in that Section in 
order to determine whether the party allocated risk following the restructuring 
controls the risk and has the financial capacity to assume the risk.

9.44.  Take  the  example  of  a  conversion  of  a  full-fledged  manufacturer 
into a contract manufacturer. In such a case, while a cost plus reward might 
be  an  arm’s  length  remuneration  for  undertaking  the  post-restructuring 
contract  manufacturing  operations,  a  different  question  is  whether  there 
should  be  indemnification  at  arm’s  length  for  the  change  in  the  existing 
arrangements which results in the surrender of the riskier profit potential by 
the manufacturer, taking into account its rights, other assets and economically 
relevant characteristics. Indemnification is discussed in Section F.

9.45.  As  another  example,  assume  a  full-fledged  distributor  is  operating 
under  a  long  term  contractual  arrangement  for  a  given  type  of  transaction. 
Assume  that,  based  on  its  rights  under  the  long  term  contract  with  respect 
to these transactions, it has the option realistically available to it to accept or 
refuse being converted into a limited risk distributor operating for a foreign 
associated  enterprise,  and  that  an  arm’s  length  remuneration  for  such  a  low 

OECD TRANSFER PRICING GUIDELINES © OECD 2022

CHAPTER IX: BUSINESS RESTRUCTURINGS – 373

risk  distribution  activity  is  estimated  to  be  a  stable  profit  of  +2%  per  year 
while  the  excess  profit  potential  associated  with  the  risks  would  now  be 
attributed  to  the  foreign  associated  enterprise.  Assume  for  the  purpose  of 
this  example  that  the  restructuring  leads  to  the  renegotiation  of  the  existing 
contractual  arrangements,  but  it  does  not  entail  the  transfer  of  assets  other 
than  its  rights  under  the  long  term  contract.  From  the  perspective  of  the 
distributor, the question arises as to whether the new arrangement (taking into 
account both the remuneration for the post-restructuring transactions and any 
compensation  for  the  restructuring  itself)  is  expected  to  make  it  as  well  off 
as its realistic – albeit riskier – alternatives. If not, this would imply that the 
post-restructuring arrangement is not priced at arm’s length and that additional 
compensation would be needed to appropriately remunerate the distributor for 
the restructuring, or that an assessment of the commercial rationality of the 
transaction based on Section D.2 may be necessary. Furthermore, for transfer 
pricing  purposes,  it  is  important  to  determine  whether  risks  contractually 
transferred as part of the business restructuring, are assumed by the foreign 
associated  enterprise  in  accordance  with  the  guidance  in  Section  D.1  of 
Chapter I.

9.46.  At arm’s length, the response is likely to depend on the rights and 
other assets of the parties, on the profit potential of the distributor and of its 
associated enterprise in relation to both business models (full-fledged and low 
risk distributor) as well as the expected duration of the new arrangement. In 
particular, in evaluating profit potential, it is necessary to evaluate whether 
historic  profits  (determined  in  accordance  with  the  arm’s  length  principle) 
are an indicator of future profit potential, or whether there have been changes 
in the business environ